—Alice's Home.

—The Room in the Looking Glass.

—The Hall with Doors.

—The Sea Shore.

Scene—The March Hare's Garden.

—The Garden of Flowers.

—The Court of Hearts.

—Alice's Home.

Miss Gerstenberg's manuscript called for costumes after the illustrations
of John Tenniel, and scenery of the simple imaginative type, the "new art"
in the theater.

"Alice in Wonderland," Alice In Wonderland said.

_ALICE'S home. LEWIS CARROLL is discovered, playing chess. Golden-haired
ALICE, in a little blue dress, a black kitten in her arms, stands watching
him._

"That's a funny game, uncle. What did you do then?," Alice said.

"A red pawn took a white pawn; this way. You see, Alice, the chessboard is," Carroll said.
divided into sixty-four squares, red and white, and the white army tries
to win and the red army tries to win. It's like a battle!

"With soldiers?," Alice said.

"Yes, here are the Kings and Queens they are fighting for. That's the Red," Carroll said.
Queen and here's the White Queen.

"How funny they look!," Alice said.

"See the crowns on their heads, and look at their big feet.," Carroll said.

"It's a foot apiece, that's what it is! Do they hump along like this?," Alice said.

"Here! You're spoiling the game. I must keep them all in their right," Carroll said.
squares.

"I want to be a queen!," Alice said.

"Here you are [he points to a small white pawn] here you are in your," Carroll said.
little stiff skirt!

"How do you do, Alice!," Alice said.

"And now you are going to move here.," Carroll said.

"Let me move myself.," Alice said.

"When you have traveled all along the board this way and haven't been taken," Carroll said.
by the enemy you may be a queen.

"Why do people always play with kings and queens? Mother has them in her," Alice said.
playing cards too. Look!

[_ALICE goes to the mantel and takes a pack of playing cards from the
ledge._]

Here's the King of Hearts and here's his wife; she's the Queen of
Hearts—isn't she symbol-looking? wants to bite one's head off.

[CARROLL moves a pawn.]

You're playing against yourself, aren't you?

"That's one way of keeping in practice, Alice; I have friends in the," Carroll said.
university who want to beat me.

"But if you play against yourself I should think you'd want to cheat!," Alice said.

"Does a nice little girl like you cheat when she plays against herself?," Carroll said.

"Oh! I never do! I'd scold myself hard. I always pretend I'm two people," Alice said.
too. It's lots of fun, isn't it? Sometimes when I'm all alone I walk up to
the looking glass and talk to the other Alice. She's so silly, that Alice;
she can't do anything by herself. She just mocks me all the time. When I
laugh, she laughs, when I point my finger at her, she points her finger at
me, and when I stick my tongue out at her she sticks her tongue out at me!
Kitty has a twin too, haven't you darling?

[ALICE goes to the mirror to show Kitty her twin.]

"I'll have to write a book some day about Alice—Alice in wonderland,," Carroll said.
"Child of the pure unclouded brow and dreaming eyes of wonder!" or, Alice
through the looking glass!

"Don't you wish sometimes you could go into looking-glass house? See!," Alice said.

[ALICE stands on an armchair and looks into the mirror.]

There's the room you can see through the glass; it's just the same as our
living-room here, only the things go the other way. I can see all of
it—all but the bit just behind the fireplace. Oh! I do wish I could see
that bit! I want so much to know if they've a fire there. You never can
tell, you know, unless our fire smokes. Then smoke comes up in that room
too—but that may be just to make it look as if they had a fire—just to
pretend they had. The books are something like our books, only the words
go the wrong way. Won't there ever be any way of our getting through,
uncle?

"Do you think Kitty would find looking-glass milk digestible?," Carroll said.

"It doesn't sound awful good, does it; but I might leave her at home. She's," Alice said.
been into an awful lot of mischief today. She found sister's knitting and
chased the ball all over the garden where sister was playing croquet with
the neighbors. And I ran and ran after the naughty little thing until I
was all out of breath and so tired! I am tired.

[She yawns and makes herself comfortable in the armchair.]

"[Replaces the playing cards on the mantel and consults his watch.]," Carroll said.

Take a nap. Yes, you have time before tea.

"[Half asleep.]," Alice said.

We're going to have mock turtle soup for supper! I heard mamma tell the
cook not to pepper it too much.

"What a funny little rabbit it is, nibbling all the time!," Carroll said.

[_He leans gently over the back of her chair, and seeing that she is
going to sleep puts out the lamp light and leaves the room. A red glow
from the fireplace illumines ALICE._]

[_Dream music. A bluish light reveals the RED CHESS QUEEN and the WHITE
CHESS QUEEN in the mirror._]

"[Points to ALICE and says in a mysterious voice.]," Red Queen said.

There she is, let's call her over.

"Do you think she'll come?," White Queen said.

"I'll call softly, Alice!," Red Queen said.

"Hist, Alice.," White Queen said.

"Alice!," Red Queen said.

"Hush—if she wakes and catches us—," White Queen said.

"Alice, come through into looking-glass house!," Both Queens said.

[Their hands beckon her.]

"[_Rises, and talks sleepily. The Queens disappear. ALICE climbs from the," Alice said.
arm of the chair to the back of another and so on up to the mantel ledge,
where she picks her way daintily between the vases._]

I—don't—know—how—I—can—get—through. I've tried—before—but the
glass was hard—and I was afraid of cutting—my fingers—

[She feels the glass and is amazed to find it like gauze.]

Why, it's soft like gauze; it's turning into a sort of mist; why, it's
easy to get through! Why—why—I'm going through!

[She disappears.]

"[_Is Scene One, reversed. The portieres are black and red squares like a," Scene Two said.
chessboard. A soft radiance follows the characters mysteriously. As the
curtain rises ALICE comes through the looking glass; steps down, looks
about in wonderment and goes to see if there is a "fire." The RED QUEEN
rises out of the grate and faces her haughtily._]

"Why, you're the Red Queen!," Alice said.

"Of course I am! Where do you come from? And where are you going? Look up,," Red Queen said.
speak nicely, and don't twiddle your fingers!

"I only wanted to see what the looking glass was like. Perhaps I've lost my," Alice said.
way.

"I don't know what you mean by your way; all the ways about here belong to," Red Queen said.
me. Curtsey while you're thinking what to say. It saves time.

"I'll try it when I go home; the next time I'm a little late for dinner.," Alice said.

"It's time for you to answer now; open your mouth a little wider when you," Red Queen said.
speak, and always say, "Your Majesty." I suppose you don't want to lose
your name?

"No, indeed.," Alice said.

"And yet I don't know, only think how convenient it would be if you could," Red Queen said.
manage to go home without it! For instance, if the governess wanted to
call you to your lessons, she would call out "come here," and there she
would have to leave off, because there wouldn't be any name for her to
call, and of course you wouldn't have to go, you know.

"That would never do, I'm sure; the governess would never think of excusing," Alice said.
me from lessons for that. If she couldn't remember my name, she'd call me
"Miss," as the servants do.

"Well, if she said "Miss," and didn't say anything more, of course you'd," Red Queen said.
miss your lessons. I dare say you can't even read this book.

"It's all in some language I don't know. Why, it's a looking-glass book, of," Alice said.
course! And if I hold it up to a glass, the words will all go the right
way again.

"'Twas brillig, and the slithy toves," Jabberwocky said.
Did gyre and gimble in the wabe;
All mimsy were the borogoves,
And the mome raths outgrabe.

It seems very pretty, but it's rather hard to understand; somehow it
seems to fill my head with ideas—only I don't exactly know what they are.

"I daresay you don't know your geography either. Look at the map!," Red Queen said.

[_She takes a right angle course to the portieres and points to them with
her sceptre._]

"It's marked out just like a big chessboard. I wouldn't mind being a pawn,," Alice said.
though of course I should like to be a Red Queen best.

"That's easily managed. When you get to the eighth square you'll be a," Red Queen said.
Queen. It's a huge game of chess that's being played—all over the world.
Come on, we've got to run. Faster, don't try to talk.

"I can't.," Alice said.

"Faster, faster.," Red Queen said.

"Are we nearly there?," Alice said.

"Nearly there! Why, we passed it ten minutes ago. Faster. You may rest a," Red Queen said.
little now.

"Why, I do believe we're in the same place. Everything's just as it was.," Alice said.

Of course it is, what would you have it?

"Well, in our country you'd generally get to somewhere else—if you ran," Alice said.
very fast for a long time as we've been doing.

"A slow sort of country. Now here you see, it takes all the running you," Red Queen said.
can do, to keep in the same place. If you want to get somewhere else, you
must run at least twice as fast as that.

"I'd rather not try, please! I'm quite content to stay here—only I am so," Alice said.
hot and thirsty.

"I know what you'd like.," Red Queen said.

[She takes a little box out of her pocket.]

Have a biscuit?

[_ALICE, not liking to refuse, curtseys as she takes the biscuit and
chokes._]

"While you're refreshing yourself, I'll just take the measurements.," Red Queen said.

[She takes a ribbon out of her pocket and measures the map with it.]

At the end of two yards I shall give you your directions—have another
biscuit?

"No thank you, one's quite enough.," Alice said.

"Thirst quenched, I hope? At the end of three yards I shall repeat," Red Queen said.
them—for fear of your forgetting them. At the end of four, I shall say
good-bye. And at the end of five, I shall go! That Square belongs to
Humpty Dumpty and that Square to the Gryphon and Mock Turtle and that
Square to the Queen of Hearts. But you make no remark?

"I—I didn't know I had to make one—just then.," Alice said.

"You should have said, "It's extremely kind of you to tell me all this,"," Red Queen said.
however, we'll suppose it said. Four! Good-bye! Five!

[_RED QUEEN vanishes in a gust of wind behind the portieres. Rabbit
music. WHITE RABBIT comes out of the fireplace and walks about the room
hurriedly. He wears a checked coat, carries white kid gloves in one hand,
a fan in the other and takes out his watch to look at it anxiously._]

"Oh the Duchess! the Duchess! Oh! won't she be savage if I've kept her," White Rabbit said.
waiting!

"I've never seen a rabbit with a waistcoat and a watch! And a waistcoat," Alice said.
pocket! If you please, sir—

"Oh!," White Rabbit said.

[_He drops fan and gloves in fright and dashes out by way of the portieres
in a gust of wind. ALICE picks up the fan and playfully puts on the
gloves. The portieres flap in the breeze and a shawl flies in._]

"[_Catches the shawl and looks about for the owner; then meets the WHITE," Alice said.
QUEEN._]

I'm very glad I happened to be in the way.

"[_Runs in wildly, both arms stretched out wide as if she were flying, and," White Queen said.
cries in a helpless frightened way._]

Bread-and-butter, bread-and-butter.

"Am I addressing the White Queen?," Alice said.

"Well, yes, if you call that a-dressing. It isn't my notion of the thing,," White Queen said.
at all.

"If your Majesty will only tell me the right way to begin, I'll do it as," Alice said.
well as I can.

"But I don't want it done at all. I've been a-dressing myself for the last," White Queen said.
two hours.

"Every single thing's crooked, and you're all over pins; may I put your," Alice said.
shawl straight for you?

"I don't know what's the matter with it! It's out of temper. I've pinned it," White Queen said.
here, and I've pinned it there, but there's no pleasing it.

"It can't go straight, you know, if you pin it all on one side, and dear," Alice said.
me, what a state your hair is in!

"The brush has got entangled in it! And I lost the comb yesterday.," White Queen said.

"[Takes out the brush and arranges the QUEEN'S hair.]," Alice said.

You look better now! But really you should have a lady's maid!

"I'm sure I'll take you with pleasure. Two pence a week and jam every other," White Queen said.
day.

"[Who cannot help laughing.]," Alice said.

I don't want you to hire me—and I don't care for jam.

"It's very good jam.," White Queen said.

"Well, I don't want any today, at any rate.," Alice said.

"You couldn't have it if you did want it. The rule is, jam tomorrow and," White Queen said.
jam yesterday—but never jam today.

"It must come sometimes to "jam today."," Alice said.

"No, it can't, it's jam every other day; today isn't any other day, you," White Queen said.
know.

"I don't understand you, it's dreadfully confusing!," Alice said.

"That's the effect of living backwards, it always makes one a little giddy," White Queen said.
at first—

"Living backwards! I never heard of such a thing!," Alice said.

"But there's one great advantage in it—that one's memory works both ways.," White Queen said.

"I'm sure mine only works one way. I can't remember things before they," Alice said.
happen.

"It's a poor sort of memory that only works backwards.," White Queen said.

"What sort of things do you remember best?," Alice said.

"Oh, things that happened the week after next. For instance now:," White Queen said.

[She sticks a large piece of plaster on her finger.]

There's the King's messenger—he's in prison being punished; and the trial
doesn't even begin till next Wednesday; and of course the crime comes last
of all.

"Suppose he never commits the crime?," Alice said.

"[Binding the plaster with ribbon.]," White Queen said.

That would be all the better, wouldn't it?

"Of course it would be all the better, but it wouldn't be all the better," Alice said.
his being punished.

"You're wrong there, at any rate; were you ever punished?," White Queen said.

"Only for faults.," Alice said.

"And you were all the better for it, I know!," White Queen said.

"Yes, but then I had done the things I was punished for; that makes all," Alice said.
the difference.

"But if you hadn't done them that would have been better still; better and," White Queen said.
better and better!

"There's a mistake somewhere—," Alice said.

"[Screams like an engine whistle, and shakes her hand.]," White Queen said.

Oh, Oh, Oh! My finger's bleeding. Oh, Oh, Oh!

"What is the matter? Have you pricked your finger?," Alice said.

"I haven't pricked it yet—but I soon shall—Oh, Oh, Oh!," White Queen said.

"When do you expect to do it?," Alice said.

"When I fasten my shawl again; the brooch will come undone directly. Oh,," White Queen said.
Oh!

[Brooch flies open and she clutches it wildly.]

"Take care! you're holding it all crooked!," Alice said.

"[Pricks her finger and smiles.]," White Queen said.

That accounts for the bleeding, you see; now you understand the way things
happen here.

"But why don't you scream now?," Alice said.

Why, I've done all the screaming already. What would be the good of having
it all over again? Oh! it's time to run if you want to stay in the same
place! Come on!

"No, no! Not so fast! I'm getting dizzy!!," Alice said.

"Faster, faster!," White Queen said.

"Everything's black before my eyes!," Alice said.

[_There is music, and the sound of rushing wind, and in the darkness the
WHITE QUEEN cries: "Faster, faster"; ALICE gasps: "I can't—please stop";
and the QUEEN replies: "Then you can't stay in the same place. I'll have
to drop you behind. Faster—faster, good-bye."_]

"_When the curtain rises one sees nothing but odd black lanterns with," Scene Three said.
orange lights, hanging, presumably, from the sky. The

ghts up
slowly revealing ALICE seated on two large cushions. She has been "dropped
behind" by the WHITE QUEEN and is dazed to find herself in a strange hall
with many peculiar doors and knobs too high to reach._

"Oh! my head! Where am I? Oh dear, Oh dear!," Alice said.

[_She staggers up and to her amazement finds herself smaller than the
table._]

I've never been smaller than any table before! I've always been able to
reach the knobs! What a curious feeling. Oh! I'm shrinking. It's the
fan—the gloves!

[_She throws them away, feels her head and measures herself against table
and doors._]

Oh! saved in time! But I never—never—

"Oh! my fan and gloves! Where are my—," White Rabbit said.

"Oh! Mr. Rabbit—please help me out—I want to go home—I want to go home—," Alice said.

"Oh! the Duchess! Oh! my fur and whiskers! She'll get me executed, as sure," White Rabbit said.
as ferrets are ferrets! Oh! you have them!

"I'm sorry—you dropped them, you know—," Alice said.

"[Picks up fan and gloves and patters off.]," White Rabbit said.

She'll chop off your head!

"If you please sir—where am I?—won't you please—tell me how to get," Alice said.
out—I want to get out—

"[Looking at his watch.]," White Rabbit said.

Oh! my ears and whiskers, how late it's getting.

[_A trap door gives way and RABBIT disappears. ALICE dashes after only in
time to have the trap door bang in her face._]

"[Amazed.]," Alice said.

It's a rabbit-hole—I'm small enough to fit it too! If I shrink any more
it might end in my going out altogether like a candle. I wonder what I
would be like then! What does the flame of a candle look like after the
candle is blown out? I've never seen such a thing!

"[Sits on the wall.]," Humpty Dumpty said.

Don't stand chattering to yourself like that, but tell me your name and
your business.

"My name is Alice, but—," Alice said.

"It's a stupid name enough, what does it mean?," Humpty Dumpty said.

"Must a name mean something?," Alice said.

"Of course it must; my name means the shape I am—and a good, handsome," Humpty Dumpty said.
shape it is, too. With a name like yours, you might be any shape, almost.

"You're Humpty Dumpty! Just like an egg.," Alice said.

"It's very provoking, to be called an egg—very.," Humpty Dumpty said.

"I said you looked like an egg, Sir, and some eggs are very pretty, you," Alice said.
know.

"Some people have no more sense than a baby.," Humpty Dumpty said.

"Why do you sit here all alone?," Alice said.

"Why, because there's nobody with me. Did you think I didn't know the," Humpty Dumpty said.
answer to that? Ask another.

"Don't you think you'd be safer down on the ground? That wall's so very," Alice said.
narrow.

"What tremendously easy riddles you ask! Of course I don't think so. Take a," Humpty Dumpty said.
good look at me! I'm one that has spoken to a king, I am; to show you I'm
not proud, you may shake hands with me!

[_He leans forward to offer ALICE his hand but she is too small to reach
it._]

However, this conversation is going on a little too fast; let's go back to
the last remark but one.

"I'm afraid I can't remember it.," Alice said.

"In that case we start fresh, and it's my turn to choose a subject.," Humpty Dumpty said.

"You talk about it just as if it were a game.," Alice said.

"So here's a question for you. How old did you say you were?," Humpty Dumpty said.

"Seven years and six months.," Alice said.

"Wrong! You never said a word about it. Now if you'd asked my advice, I'd," Humpty Dumpty said.
have said, "Leave off at seven—but—"

"I never ask advice about growing.," Alice said.

"Too proud?," Humpty Dumpty said.

"What a beautiful belt you've got on. At least, a beautiful cravat, I," Alice said.
should have said—no, a belt, I mean—I beg your pardon. If only I knew
which was neck and which was waist.

"It is a—most—provoking—thing, when a person doesn't know a cravat," Humpty Dumpty said.
from a belt.

"I know it's very ignorant of me.," Alice said.

"It's a cravat, child, and a beautiful one, as you say. There's glory for," Humpty Dumpty said.
you.

"I don't know what you mean by "glory."," Alice said.

"When I use a word, it means just what I choose it to mean—neither more," Humpty Dumpty said.
nor less.

"The question is, whether you can make words mean different things.," Alice said.

"The question is, which is to be master—that's all. Impenetrability!," Humpty Dumpty said.
That's what I say!

"Would you tell me, please, what that means?," Alice said.

"I meant by "impenetrability" that we've had enough of that subject, and it," Humpty Dumpty said.
would be just as well if you'd mention what you mean to do next, as I
suppose you don't mean to stop here all the rest of your life.

"That's a great deal to make one word mean.," Alice said.

"When I make a word do a lot of work like that I always pay it extra.," Humpty Dumpty said.

"Oh!," Alice said.

"Ah, you should see 'em come round me of a Saturday night, for to get their," Humpty Dumpty said.
wages, you know. That's all—Good-bye.

"Good-bye till we meet again.," Alice said.

"I shouldn't know you again, if we did meet, you're so exactly like other," Humpty Dumpty said.
people.

"The face is what one goes by, generally.," Alice said.

"That's just what I complain of. Your face is the same as everybody," Humpty Dumpty said.
has—the two eyes—so—nose in the middle, mouth under. It's always the
same. Now if you had the two eyes on the same side of the nose, for
instance—or the mouth at the top—that would be some help.

"It wouldn't look nice.," Alice said.

"Wait till you've tried! Good-bye.," Humpty Dumpty said.

[He disappears as he came.]

"Oh! I forgot to ask him how to—," Alice said.

[_She tries to open the doors. They are all locked; she begins to weep.
She walks weeping to a high glass table and sits down on its lower ledge.
She sits on a big golden key and picks it up in surprise. She tries it on
all the doors but it does not fit. She weeps and weeps—and Wonderland
grows dark to her in her despair. In the darkness she cries, "Oh! I'm
slipping! Oh, Oh! it's a lake; Oh! my tears! I'm floating!" A mysterious
light shows a "Drink me" sign around a bottle on the top of the table.
ALICE floats up to it panting, and holding on to the edge of the table
takes up the bottle._]

"It isn't marked poison.," Alice said.

[She sips at it.]

This is good! Tastes like cherry tart, custard, pineapple, roast turkey,
toffy and hot buttered toast—all together. Oh! Oh! I'm letting out like a
telescope.

[A mysterious light shows her lengthening out.]

[Music.]

But the lake is rising too. Oh! Oh! it's deep! I'm drowning. Help, help,
I'm drowning, I'm drowning in my tears!

"Hjckrrh. Hjckrrh!," Gryphon said.

[_The GRYPHON, a huge green creature with big glittering wings, appears
where HUMPTY DUMPTY had been and reaches glittering claws over to grab and
save ALICE._]

"_Is symbolic of a wet and rocky shore in a weird green light. The MOCK," Scene Four said.
TURTLE is weeping dismally._

"Hjckrrh. Hjckrrh. Hjckrrh.," Gryphon said.

"[Answers with his weeping.]," Mock Turtle said.

"[Drags ALICE in.]," Gryphon said.

Drop your tears into the sea with his.

"He sobs as if he had a bone in his throat. He sighs as if his heart would," Alice said.
break. What is his sorrow?

"Oh, Gryphon, it's terrible!," Mock Turtle said.

"It's all his fancy that. Mock Turtle hasn't got no sorrow. This here young," Gryphon said.
lady, she wants for to know your history, she do.

"I'll tell it her. Sit down both of you, and don't speak a word till I've," Mock Turtle said.
finished.

"I don't see how you can ever finish, if you don't begin.," Alice said.

"Once, I was a real Turtle.," Mock Turtle said.

[_A long silence is broken only by the exclamations, "Hjckrrh," of the
GRYPHON and the heavy sobbing of the MOCK TURTLE._]

"When we were little, we went to school in the sea. The master was an old," Mock Turtle said.
Turtle—we used to call him tortoise—

"Why did you call him Tortoise, if he wasn't one?," Alice said.

"We called him Tortoise because he taught us; really you are very dull.," Mock Turtle said.

"You ought to be ashamed of yourself for asking such a simple question.," Gryphon said.
Drive on, old fellow! Don't be all day about it!

"Yes, we went to school in the sea, tho' you mayn't believe it—," Mock Turtle said.

"I never said I didn't.," Alice said.

"You did.," Mock Turtle said.

"Hold your tongue!," Gryphon said.

"We had the best of educations—in fact, we went to school every day.," Mock Turtle said.

"I've been to a day school too; you needn't be so proud as all that.," Alice said.

"With extras?," Mock Turtle said.

"Yes, we learned French and music.," Alice said.

"And washing?," Mock Turtle said.

"Certainly not!," Alice said.

Ah! Then yours wasn't a really good school. Now at ours they had at the
end of the bill, French, music, and washing—extra.

"You couldn't have wanted it much; living at the bottom of the sea.," Alice said.

"I couldn't afford to learn it, I only took the regular course.," Mock Turtle said.

"What was that?," Alice said.

"Reeling and writhing, of course, to begin with, and then the different," Mock Turtle said.
branches of Arithmetic—Ambition, Distraction, Uglification, and Derision.

"I never heard of Uglification. What is it?," Alice said.

"Never heard of uglifying! You know what to beautify is, I suppose?," Gryphon said.

"Yes, it means—to—make—anything—prettier.," Alice said.

"Well then, if you don't know what to uglify is, you are a simpleton.," Gryphon said.

"What else had you to learn?," Alice said.

"Well, there was Mystery; Mystery, ancient and modern, with Seaography,," Mock Turtle said.
then Drawling—the Drawling-master was an old conger eel, that used to
come once a week; what he taught us was Drawling, Stretching, and
Fainting in Coils.

"What was that like?," Alice said.

"Well, I can't show it you, myself. I'm too stiff. And the Gryphon never," Mock Turtle said.
learned it.

"Hadn't time; I went to the Classical master, though. He was an old crab,," Gryphon said.
he was.

"I never went to him; he taught Laughing and Grief, they used to say.," Mock Turtle said.

"So he did, so he did.," Gryphon said.

"And how many hours a day did you do lessons?," Alice said.

"Ten hours the first day, nine the next, and so on.," Mock Turtle said.

"What a curious plan!," Alice said.

"That's the reason they're called lessons, because they lessen from day to," Gryphon said.
day.

"Then the eleventh day must have been a holiday?," Alice said.

"Of course it was.," Mock Turtle said.

"And how did you manage on the twelfth?," Alice said.

"That's enough about lessons, tell her something about the games now.," Gryphon said.

[_MOCK TURTLE sighs deeply, draws back of one flapper across his eyes. He
looks at ALICE and tries to speak but sobs choke his voice._]

"[Punching him in the back.]," Gryphon said.

Same as if he had a bone in his throat.

"[With tears running down his cheeks.]," Mock Turtle said.

You may not have lived much under the sea—

"I haven't.," Alice said.

"And perhaps you were never even introduced to a lobster.," Mock Turtle said.

"I once tasted—no, never!," Alice said.

"So you can have no idea what a delightful thing a Lobster Quadrille is.," Mock Turtle said.

"No, indeed. What sort of a dance is it?," Alice said.

"Why, you first form into a line along the seashore.," Gryphon said.

"Two lines; seals, turtles, salmon, and so on; then, when you've cleared," Mock Turtle said.
all the jellyfish out of the way—

"That generally takes some time.," Gryphon said.

"You advance twice—," Mock Turtle said.

"Each with a lobster as a partner.," Gryphon said.

"Of course, advance twice, set to partners.," Mock Turtle said.

"Change lobsters, and retire in same order.," Gryphon said.

"Then you know, you throw the—," Mock Turtle said.

"The lobsters!," Gryphon said.

"As far out to sea as you can—," Mock Turtle said.

"Swim after them!," Gryphon said.

"Turn a somersault in the sea.," Mock Turtle said.

"Change lobsters again!," Gryphon said.

"Back to land again, and—that's all the first figure.," Mock Turtle said.

"It must be a very pretty dance.," Alice said.

"Would you like to see a little of it?," Mock Turtle said.

"Very much indeed.," Alice said.

"Come, let's try the first figure. We can do it without lobsters, you know;," Mock Turtle said.
which shall sing?

"Oh, you sing, I've forgotten the words.," Gryphon said.

[_Creatures solemnly dance round and round ALICE, treading on her toes,
waving fore-paws to mark time while MOCK TURTLE sings._]

First Verse

"Will you walk a little faster!" said a whiting to a snail,
"There's a porpoise close behind us, and he's treading on my tail.
See how eagerly the lobsters and the turtles all advance!
They are waiting on the shingle—will you come and join the dance?
Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, will you join the dance?
Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, won't you join the dance?

Second Verse

"You can really have no notion how delightful it will be
When they take us up and throw us, with the lobsters, out to sea!"
But the snail replied, "Too far, too far!" and gave a look askance—
Said he thanked the whiting kindly, but he would not join the dance.
Would not, could not, would not, could not, would not join the dance.
Would not, could not, would not, could not, could not join the dance.

[_The creatures dance against ALICE, pushing her back and forth between
them. She protests and finally escapes; they bump against each other._]

"Thank you; it's a very interesting dance to watch, and I do so like that," Alice said.
curious song about the whiting.

"Oh, as to the whiting, they—you've seen them, of course?," Mock Turtle said.

"Yes, I've often seen them at din—," Alice said.

[Checks herself hastily.]

"I don't know where Din may be, but if you've seen them so often, of course," Mock Turtle said.
you know what they're like.

"I believe so, they have their tails in their mouths—and they're all over," Alice said.
crumbs.

"You're wrong about the crumbs, crumbs would all wash off in the sea. But," Mock Turtle said.
they have their tails in their mouths; and the reason is—

[MOCK TURTLE yawns and shuts his eyes.]

Tell her about the reason and all that.

"The reason is, that they would go with the lobsters to the dance. So," Gryphon said.
they got thrown out to sea. So they had to fall a long way. So they got
their tails fast in their mouths. So they couldn't get them out again.
That's all.

"Thank you, it's very interesting. I never knew so much about a whiting," Alice said.
before.

"I can tell you more than that, if you like. Do you know why it's called a," Gryphon said.
whiting?

"I never thought about it. Why?," Alice said.

"It does the boots and shoes.," Gryphon said.

"Does the boots and shoes!," Alice said.

"Why, what are your shoes done with? I mean, what makes them so shiny?," Gryphon said.

"They're done with blacking, I believe.," Alice said.

"Boots and shoes under the sea, are done with whiting. Now you know.," Gryphon said.

"And what are they made of?," Alice said.

"Soles and eels, of course; any shrimp could have told you that.," Gryphon said.

"If I'd been the whiting, I'd have said to the porpoise, "Keep back,," Alice said.
please; we don't want you with us."

"They were obliged to have him with them, no wise fish would go anywhere," Mock Turtle said.
without a porpoise.

"Wouldn't it really?," Alice said.

"Of course not; why if a fish came to me and told me he was going a," Mock Turtle said.
journey, I should say, "With what porpoise?"

"Don't you mean purpose?," Alice said.

"I mean what I say.," Mock Turtle said.

Shall we try another figure of the Lobster Quadrille? Or would you like
the Mock Turtle to sing you a song?

"Oh, a song please, if the Mock Turtle would be so kind.," Alice said.

"Um! No accounting for tastes! Sing her "Turtle Soup," will you, old," Gryphon said.
fellow?

"[Sighs deeply and sometimes choked with sobs, sings.]," Mock Turtle said.

"Beautiful Soup, so rich and green,
Waiting in a hot tureen!
Who for such dainties would not stoop?
Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
Beau—ootiful Soo—op,
Beau—ootiful Soo—oop,
Soo—oop of the e-e-evening,
Beautiful, beautiful Soup."

"[_Enters, stretching out a red and white checked sash with which he," White Rabbit said.
separates ALICE from the creatures._]

Check!

"They won't let her stay in our square.," Mock Turtle said.

"The Queen is coming this way.," White Rabbit said.

"She'll chop our heads off. Come on, come on, let's fly!," Gryphon said.

[The MOCK TURTLE and GRYPHON grab ALICE and fly into the air.]

"[_The Curtain rises to reveal small silhouettes of the GRYPHON, MOCK," Curtain said.
TURTLE, and ALICE in an orange-colored moon far away in the sky. Down
below the WHITE RABBIT is shouting to them, "You'll be safe in the March
Hare's garden."_]

"_The March Hare's garden, showing part of the Duchess' house. On a small," Curtain said.
platform there is a tea table, set with many cups, continuing into wings
to give impression of limitless length. THE MARCH HARE, HATTER, and
DORMOUSE are crowded at one end. ALICE sits on the ground where she has
been dropped from the sky. Finding herself not bruised she rises and
approaches the table._

MARCH HARE and HATTER

No room! No room!

"There's plenty of room!," Alice said.

[She sits in a large armchair at one end of the table.]

I don't know who you are.

"I am the March Hare, that's the Hatter, and this is the Dormouse. Have," March Hare said.
some wine?

"I don't see any wine.," Alice said.

"There isn't any.," March Hare said.

"Then it wasn't very civil of you to offer it.," Alice said.

"It wasn't very civil of you to sit down without being invited.," March Hare said.

"I didn't know it was your table; it's laid for a great many more than," Alice said.
three.

"Your hair wants cutting.," Hatter said.

"You should learn not to make personal remarks; it's very rude.," Alice said.

"Why is a raven like a writing-desk?," Hatter said.

"Come, we shall have some fun now! I'm glad you've begun asking riddles—I," Alice said.
believe I can guess that.

"So you mean that you think you can find out the answer to it?," March Hare said.

Then you should say what you mean.

"I do; at least—at least I mean what I say—that's the same thing, you," Alice said.
know.

"Not the same thing a bit! Why, you might just as well say that "I see what," Hatter said.
I eat" is the same thing as, "I eat what I see!"

"You might just as well say that "I like what I get," is the same thing as," March Hare said.
"I get what I like."

"You might just as well say that "I breathe when I sleep" is the same thing," Dormouse said.
as "I sleep when I breathe."

"It is the same thing with you.," Hatter said.

[_Takes out his watch, looks at it uneasily, shakes it, holds it to his
ear._]

What day of the month is it?

"The fourth.," Alice said.

"Two days wrong. I told you butter wouldn't suit the works!," Hatter said.

"It was the best butter.," March Hare said.

"Yes, but some crumbs must have got in as well; you shouldn't have put it," Hatter said.
in with the bread-knife—

"[_Takes the watch, looks at it gloomily, dips it into his cup of tea and," March Hare said.
looks at it again but doesn't know what else to say._]

It was the best butter, you know.

"What a funny watch! It tells the day of the month, and doesn't tell what," Alice said.
o'clock it is.

"Why should it? Does your watch tell you what year it is?," Hatter said.

"Of course not, but that's because it stays the same year for such a long," Alice said.
time together.

"Which is just the case with mine.," Hatter said.

"I don't quite understand you. What you said had no sort of meaning in it," Alice said.
and yet it was certainly English.

"[Pouring some hot tea on the DORMOUSE'S nose.]," Hatter said.

The Dormouse is asleep again.

"Of course, of course, just what I was going to remark myself.," Dormouse said.

"Have you guessed the riddle yet?," Hatter said.

"No, I give it up, what's the answer?," Alice said.

"I haven't the slightest idea.," Hatter said.

"Nor I.," March Hare said.

"I think you might do something better with the time, than wasting it in," Alice said.
asking riddles that have no answers.

"If you knew Time as well as I do, you wouldn't talk about wasting it.," Hatter said.
It's him.

"I don't know what you mean.," Alice said.

"Of course you don't. I dare say you never even spoke to Time.," Hatter said.

"Perhaps not, but I know I have to beat time when I learn music.," Alice said.

"Ah, that accounts for it. He won't stand beating. Now, if you only kept on," Hatter said.
good terms with him, he'd do almost anything you liked with the clock. For
instance, suppose it were nine o'clock in the morning, just time to begin
lessons. You'd only have to whisper a hint to Time, and round goes the
clock in a twinkling! Half past one, time for dinner.

"I only wish it was.," March Hare said.

"That would be grand, certainly, but then—I shouldn't be hungry for it,," Alice said.
you know.

"Not at first, perhaps, but you could keep it to half past one as long as," Hatter said.
you liked.

"Is that the way you manage?," Alice said.

"Not I, we quarreled last March—just before he went mad, you know. It," Hatter said.
was at the great concert given by the Queen of Hearts and I had to sing.

"Twinkle, twinkle, little bat!
How I wonder what you're at!"

You know the song, perhaps.

"I've heard something like it.," Alice said.

"Twinkle, twinkle, twinkle—," Dormouse said.

"Well, I'd hardly finished the first verse when the Queen bawled out, "He's," Hatter said.
murdering the time! Off with his head!"

"How dreadfully savage!," Alice said.

"And ever since that, he won't do a thing I ask! It's always six o'clock," Hatter said.
now.

"Is that the reason so many tea things are put out here?," Alice said.

"Yes, that's it; it's always tea time, and we've no time to wash the things," Hatter said.
between whiles.

"Then you keep moving round, I suppose?," Alice said.

"Exactly so, as the things get used up.," Hatter said.

"But when you come to the beginning again?," Alice said.

"Suppose we change the subject. I vote the young lady tells us a story.," March Hare said.

"I'm afraid I don't know one.," Alice said.

MARCH HARE and HATTER

Then the Dormouse shall. Wake up Dormouse.

[They pinch him on both sides at once.]

"[Opens his eyes slowly and says in a hoarse, feeble voice.]," Dormouse said.

I wasn't asleep, I heard every word you fellows were saying.

"Tell us a story.," March Hare said.

"Yes, please do!," Alice said.

"And be quick about it, or you'll be asleep again before it's done.," Hatter said.

"Once upon a time there were three little sisters, and their names were," Dormouse said.
Elsie, Lacie, and Tillie and they lived at the bottom of a well—

"What did they live on?," Alice said.

They lived on treacle.

"They couldn't have done that, you know, they'd have been ill.," Alice said.

"So they were, very ill.," Dormouse said.

"But why did they live at the bottom of a well?," Alice said.

"Take some more tea.," March Hare said.

"I've had nothing yet, so I can't take more.," Alice said.

"You mean, you can't take less; it's very easy to take more than," Hatter said.
nothing.

"Nobody asked your opinion.," Alice said.

"Who's making personal remarks now?," Hatter said.

"[Helps herself to tea and bread and butter.]," Alice said.

Why did they live at the bottom of a well?

"[Takes a minute or two to think.]," Dormouse said.

It was a treacle-well.

"There's no such thing!," Alice said.

HATTER and MARCH HARE

Sh! Sh!

"If you can't be civil, you'd better finish the story for yourself.," Dormouse said.

"[Very humbly.]," Alice said.

No, please go on. I won't interrupt you again. I dare say there may be
one.

"One, indeed! And so these three little sisters—they were learning to," Dormouse said.
draw, you know—

"What did they draw?," Alice said.

"Treacle.," Dormouse said.

"I want a clean cup. Let's all move one place on.," Hatter said.

[_HATTER moves on, DORMOUSE takes his place, MARCH HARE takes DORMOUSE'S
place and ALICE unwillingly takes MARCH HARE'S place._]

"I'm worse off than I was before. You've upset the milk jug into your," Alice said.
plate.

"It wasn't very civil of you to sit down without being invited.," March Hare said.

"Where did they draw the treacle from?," Alice said.

"You can draw water out of a water well, so I should think you could draw," Hatter said.
treacle out of a treacle well—eh, stupid?

"But they were in the well.," Alice said.

"Of course they were—well in. They were learning to draw, and they drew," Dormouse said.
all manner of things—everything that begins with an M—

"Why with an M?," Alice said.

[ALICE is silent and confused. HATTER pinches DORMOUSE to wake him up.]

"[Wakes with a little shriek and continues.]," Dormouse said.

—that begins with an M, such as mousetraps and the moon and memory and
muchness—you know you say things are "much of a muchness"—did you ever
see such a thing as a drawing of a muchness?

"Did you?," Hatter said.

"Really now you ask me, I don't think—," Alice said.

"Then you shouldn't talk.," Hatter said.

"No!," March Hare said.

"[Rises and walks away.]," Alice said.

You are very rude. It's the stupidest tea party I ever was at in all my
life—

[_WHITE RABBIT enters carrying a huge envelope with a seal and crown on
it._]

MARCH HARE and HATTER

No room! no room!

[_Rabbit pays no attention to them but goes to the house and raps loudly.
A footman in livery with a round face and large eyes like a frog and
powdered hair opens the door._]

"For the Duchess. An invitation from the Queen to play croquet.," White Rabbit said.

"From the Queen. An invitation for the Duchess to play croquet.," Frog said.

[WHITE RABBIT bows and goes out.]

MARCH HARE and HATTER

[To WHITE RABBIT.]

No room! No room! No room!

[_The FROG disappears into the house but leaves the door open. There is a
terrible din and many sauce pans fly out._]

"She's at it again.," March Hare said.

"It's perfectly disgusting.," Hatter said.

"Let's move on.," March Hare said.

[_The platform moves off with table, chairs, MARCH HARE, HATTER, and
DORMOUSE. Meanwhile the FROG has come out again and is sitting near the
closed door, staring stupidly at the sky. ALICE goes to the door timidly
and knocks._]

"There's no sort of use in knocking, and that for two reasons: first,," Frog said.
because I'm on the same side of the door as you are; secondly, because
they're making such a noise inside, no one could possibly hear you.

"Please then, how am I to get in?," Alice said.

"There might be some sense in your knocking if we had the door between us.," Frog said.
For instance, if you were inside, you might knock, and I could let you
out, you know.

"How am I to get in?," Alice said.

"I shall sit here, till tomorrow.," Frog said.

[_The door opens and a large plate skims out straight at the FROG'S
head; it grazes his nose and breaks into pieces._]

[FROG acts as if nothing had happened.]

Or next day, maybe.

"How am I to get in?," Alice said.

"Are you to get in at all? That's the first question, you know.," Frog said.

"It's really dreadful the way all you creatures argue. It's enough to drive," Alice said.
one crazy.

"I shall sit here, on and off, for days and days.," Frog said.

"But what am I to do?," Alice said.

"Anything you like.," Frog said.

[He begins to whistle.]

"Where's the servant whose business it is to answer the door?," Alice said.

"Which door?," Frog said.

"This door, of course!," Alice said.

[_The FROG looks at the door, and rubs his thumb on it to see if the
paint will come off._]

To answer the door? What's it been asking for?

"I don't know what you mean.," Alice said.

"I speaks English, doesn't I? Or are you deaf? What did it ask you?," Frog said.

"Nothing! I've been knocking at it.," Alice said.

"Shouldn't do that—shouldn't do that, vexes it, you know.," Frog said.

[He kicks the door.]

You let it alone, and it'll let you alone, you know.

"Oh, there's no use talking to you—," Alice said.

[_She starts to open the door just as the DUCHESS comes out carrying a pig
in baby's clothes. She sneezes—FROG sneezes and ALICE sneezes._]

"If everybody minded her own business—," Duchess said.

[She sneezes.]

"It's pepper.," Alice said.

"Of course, my cook puts it in the soup.," Duchess said.

"There's certainly too much pepper in the soup.," Alice said.

"Sneeze then and get rid of it!," Duchess said.

[_DUCHESS begins to sing to the baby, giving it a violent shake at the end
of every line of the lullaby._]

"Speak roughly to your little boy,
And beat him when he sneezes;

[FROG and ALICE sneeze.]

He only does it to annoy,
Because he knows it teases.

[DUCHESS sneezes, FROG sneezes, ALICE sneezes.]

I speak severely to my boy,
I beat him when he sneezes;

[FROG sneezes, ALICE sneezes.]

For he can thoroughly enjoy
The pepper when he pleases!"

[_DUCHESS sneezes, FROG sneezes, ALICE sneezes, DUCHESS gasps and gives a
tremendous sneeze._]

"Oh dear!," Alice said.

[_She jumps aside as kettles and pots come flying out of the door. The
DUCHESS pays no attention._]

What a cook to have!

[She calls inside.]

Oh! please mind what you're doing!

[Another pan comes out and almost hits the baby.]

Oh! there goes his precious nose!

"If everybody minded her own business, the world would go round a deal," Duchess said.
faster than it does.

"Which would not be an advantage. Just think what work it would make with," Alice said.
the day and night! You see the earth takes twenty-four hours to turn round
on its axis—

"Talking of axes, chop off her head!," Duchess said.

[The head of a grinning Cheshire cat appears in a tree above a wall.]

"Oh, what's that?," Alice said.

"Cat, of course.," Duchess said.

"Why does it grin like that?," Alice said.

"It's a Cheshire cat! and that's why. [To baby.] Pig!," Duchess said.

I didn't know that Cheshire cats always grinned; in fact, I didn't know
that cats could grin.

"They all can and most of 'em do.," Duchess said.

"I don't know of any that do.," Alice said.

"You don't know much and that's a fact. Here, you may nurse it a bit, if," Duchess said.
you like!

[Flings the baby at ALICE.]

I must go and get ready to play croquet with the Queen.

[She goes into the house.]

"If I don't take this child away with me, they're sure to kill it in a day," Alice said.
or two. Cheshire Puss, would you tell me please, which way I ought to walk
from here?

"That depends a good deal on where you want to get to.," Cat said.

"I don't much care where—," Alice said.

"Then it doesn't matter which way you walk.," Cat said.

"So long as I get somewhere.," Alice said.

"Oh, you're sure to do that, if you only walk long enough.," Cat said.

"Please, will you tell me what sort of people live about here?," Alice said.

"All mad people.," Cat said.

"But I don't want to go among mad people.," Alice said.

"Oh, you can't help that; we're all mad here. I'm mad. He's mad. He's," Cat said.
dreaming now, and what do you think he's dreaming about?

"[Goes to the FROG to scrutinize his face.]," Alice said.

Nobody could guess that.

"Why, about you! And if he left off dreaming about you, where do you," Cat said.
suppose you'd be?

"Where I am now, of course.," Alice said.

"Not you. You'd be nowhere. Why, you're only a sort of thing in his dream;," Cat said.
and you're mad too.

"How do you know I'm mad?," Alice said.

"You must be, or you wouldn't have come here.," Cat said.

"How do you know that you're mad?," Alice said.

"To begin with, a dog's not mad. You grant that?," Cat said.

"I suppose so.," Alice said.

"Well then, you see a dog growls when it's angry, and wags its tail when," Cat said.
it's pleased. Now I growl when I'm pleased, and wag my tail when I'm
angry. Therefore I'm mad.

"I call it purring, not growling.," Alice said.

Call it what you like. Do you play croquet with the Queen today?

"I should like it very much, but I haven't been invited yet.," Alice said.

"You'll see me there.," Cat said.

[Vanishes.]

"[To squirming baby.]," Alice said.

Oh, dear, it's heavy and so ugly. Don't grunt—Oh—Oh—it's a—pig. Please
Mr. Footman take it!

"[_Rises with dignity, whistles and disappears into the house; a kettle," Frog said.
comes bounding out. ALICE puts pig down and it crawls off._]

"[Appearing again.]," Cat said.

By-the-bye, what became of the baby?

"It turned into a pig.," Alice said.

"I thought it would.," Cat said.

[Vanishes.]

[FROG comes out of the house with hedgehogs and flamingoes.]

"[Reappearing.]," Cat said.

Did you say pig, or fig?

"I said pig; and I wish you wouldn't keep appearing and vanishing so," Alice said.
suddenly; you make one quite giddy.

"All right. [It vanishes slowly.]," Cat said.

[_FROG puts flamingoes down and reenters house. While ALICE is examining
the flamingoes curiously, TWEEDLEDUM and TWEEDLEDEE, each with an arm
round the other's neck, sidestep in and stand looking at ALICE._]

"[Turns, sees them, starts in surprise and involuntarily whispers.]," Alice said.

Tweedle—dee.

"Dum!," Dum said.

"If you think we're waxworks, you ought to pay.," Dee said.

"Contrariwise, if you think we're alive, you ought to speak.," Dum said.

"The first thing in a visit is to say "How d'ye do?" and shake hands!," Dee said.

[_The brothers give each other a hug, then hold out the two hands that are
free, to shake hands with her. ALICE does not like shaking hands with
either of them first, for fear of hurting the other one's feelings; she
takes hold of both hands at once and they all dance round in a ring, quite
naturally to music, "Here we go round the mulberry bush."_]

"Would you tell me which road leads out of—," Alice said.

"What shall I repeat to her?," Dee said.

"The "Walrus and the Carpenter" is the longest.," Dum said.

[Gives his brother an affectionate hug.]

"The sun was shining—," Dee said.

"If it's very long, would you please tell me first which road—," Alice said.

"The moon was shining sulkily.," Dee said.

"The sea was wet as wet could be—," Dum said.

"O Oysters, come and walk with us," Dee said.
The Walrus did beseech—

"[Looks at DEE.]," Dum said.

A pleasant walk, a pleasant talk,
Along the briny beach—

"[Looks at DUM.]," Dee said.

The eldest Oyster winked his eye
And shook his heavy head—

"[Looks at DEE.]," Dum said.

Meaning to say he did not choose
To leave the oyster bed.

"But four young Oysters hurried up," Dee said.
And yet another four—

"And thick and fast they came at last,," Dum said.
And more, and more, and more—

"The Walrus and the Carpenter," Dee said.
Walked on a mile or so,

"And then they rested on a rock," Dum said.
Conveniently low,

"And all the little Oysters stood," Dee said.
And waited in a row.

""A loaf of bread," the Walrus said,," Dum said.
"Is what we chiefly need.

"Now if you're ready, Oysters dear,," Dee said.
We can begin to feed."

""But not on us!" the Oysters cried,," Dum said.
Turning a little blue.

""The night is fine," the Walrus said,," Dee said.
"Do you admire the view?"

"The Carpenter said nothing but," Dum said.
"Cut us another slice.
I wish you were not quite so deaf—
I've had to ask you twice!"

""It seems a shame," the Walrus said,," Dee said.
"To play them such a trick,
After we've brought them out so far,
And made them trot so quick!"

""O, Oysters," said the Carpenter,," Dum said.
"You've had a pleasant run!

"Shall we be trotting home again?"," Dee said.

"But answer came there none—," Dum said.

"And this was scarcely odd, because," Dee said.

"They'd eaten every—," Dum said.

"[Interrupts in a passion, pointing to a white rattle on the ground.]," Dee said.

Do you see that?

"It's only a rattle—," Alice said.

"[Stamps wildly and tears his hair.]," Dum said.

I knew it was! It's spoilt of course. My nice new rattle!

[To DEE.]

You agree to have a battle?

[He collects sauce pans and pots.]

"[Picks up a sauce pan.]," Dee said.

I suppose so. Let's fight till dinner.

[They go out hand in hand.]

"[Hears music.]," Alice said.

I wonder what is going to happen next.

[_She backs down stage respectfully as the KING and QUEEN OF HEARTS enter,
followed by the KNAVE OF HEARTS carrying the KING'S crown on a crimson
velvet cushion, and the WHITE RABBIT and others. When they come opposite
to ALICE they stop and look at her._]

[The DUCHESS comes out of her house.]

"[To the KNAVE.]," Queen said.

Who is this?

[Bows three times, smiles and giggles.]

"Idiot! What's your name, child?," Queen said.

"My name is Alice, so please your Majesty.," Alice said.

"Off with her head! Off—," Queen said.

"Nonsense!," Alice said.

"Consider, my dear, she is only a child.," King said.

"Can you play croquet?," Queen said.

"Yes.," Alice said.

"Come on then. Get to your places. Where are the mallets?," Queen said.

"Here.," Duchess said.

[The FROG appears with the flamingoes and hedgehogs.]

"Off with his head!," Queen said.

[No one pays any attention.]

"What fun!," Knave said.

"What is the fun?," Alice said.

"Why she; it's all her fancy, that. They never execute anyone.," Knave said.

"What does one do?," Alice said.

"Get to your places!," Queen said.

[_She takes a flamingo, uses its neck as a mallet and a hedgehog as a
ball. The FROG doubles himself into an arch. The KING does the same with
the followers and the KNAVE offers himself as an arch for ALICE. Even
though ALICE does not notice him he holds the arch position. The QUEEN
shouts at intervals, "Off with his head, off with her head."_]

"Where are the Chess Queens?," Alice said.

"Under sentence of execution.," Rabbit said.

"What for?," Alice said.

"Did you say, "what a pity"?," Rabbit said.

"No, I didn't. I don't think it's at all a pity. I said, "What for?"," Alice said.

"They boxed the Queen's ears.," Rabbit said.

[ALICE gives a little scream of laughter.]

"Oh, hush! The Queen will hear you! You see they came rather late and the," Rabbit said.
Queen said—Oh dear, the Queen hears me—

[He hurries away.]

"[Noticing the KNAVE who still pretends to be an arch.]," Alice said.

How can you go on thinking so quietly, with your head downwards?

"What does it matter where my body happens to be? My mind goes on working," Knave said.
just the same. The fact of it is, the more head downwards I am, the more I
keep on inventing new things.

"Did you happen to meet any soldiers, my dear, as you came through the," King said.
wood?

"Yes, I did; several thousand I should think.," Alice said.

"Four thousand, two hundred and seven, that's the exact number. They," King said.
couldn't send all the horses, you know, because two of them are wanted in
the game. And I haven't sent the two messengers, either.

"What's the war about?," Alice said.

"The red Chess King has the whole army against us but he can't kill a man," King said.
who has thirteen hearts.

[_The DUCHESS, QUEEN, FROG, and followers go out. The KNAVE and the
FIVE-SPOT, SEVEN-SPOT, and NINE-SPOT OF HEARTS stand behind the KING._]

Just look along the road and tell me if you can see either of my
messengers.

"I see nobody on the road.," Alice said.

"I only wish I had such eyes; to be able to see Nobody! And at that," King said.
distance too! Why, it's as much as I can do to see real people, by this
light.

"I see somebody now! But he's coming very slowly—and what curious," Alice said.
attitudes he goes into—skipping up and down, and wriggling like an eel.

"Not at all, those are Anglo-Saxon attitudes. He only does them when he's," King said.
happy. I must have two messengers, you know—to come and go. One to come
and one to go.

"I beg your pardon?," Alice said.

"It isn't respectable to beg.," King said.

"I only meant that I didn't understand. Why one to come and one to go?," Alice said.

"Don't I tell you? I must have two—to fetch and carry. One to fetch, and," King said.
one to carry.

"[_Enters, pants for breath—waves his hands about and makes fearful faces," March Hare said.
at the KING._]

"You alarm me! I feel faint—give me a ham sandwich. Another sandwich!," King said.

"There's nothing but hay left now.," March Hare said.

"Hay, then. There's nothing like eating hay when you're faint.," King said.

"I should think throwing cold water over you would be better.," Alice said.

"I didn't say there was nothing better; I said there was nothing like," King said.
it.

"Who did you pass on the road?," King said.

"Nobody.," March Hare said.

"Quite right; this young lady saw him too. So of course Nobody walks slower," King said.
than you.

"I do my best; I'm sure nobody walks much faster than I do.," March Hare said.

"He can't do that; or else he'd have been here first. However, now you've," King said.
got your breath, you may tell us what's happened in the town.

"I'll whisper it.," March Hare said.

[Much to ALICE'S surprise, he shouts into the KING'S ear.]

They're at it again!

"Do you call that a whisper? If you do such a thing again, I'll have you," King said.
buttered. It went through and through my head like an earthquake. Give me
details, quick!

[_The KING and MARCH HARE go out, followed by FIVE, SEVEN, and NINE
SPOTS._]

"[Runs in and tucks her arm affectionately into ALICE'S.]," Duchess said.

You can't think how glad I am to see you again, you dear old thing!

"Oh!," Alice said.

"You're thinking about something, my dear, and that makes you forget to," Duchess said.
talk. I can't tell you just now what the moral of that is, but I shall
remember it in a bit.

"Perhaps it hasn't one.," Alice said.

"Tut, tut, child! Everything's got a moral, if only you can find it.," Duchess said.

[_Squeezes closely, digs her chin into ALICE'S shoulder, and roughly drags
ALICE along for a walk._]

"The game's going on rather better now.," Alice said.

"'Tis so, and the moral of that is—"Oh, 'tis love, 'tis love, that makes," Duchess said.
the world go round!"

"Somebody said, that it's done by everybody minding their own business.," Alice said.

"Ah, well! It means much the same thing, and the moral of that is—"Take," Duchess said.
care of the sense, and the sounds will take care of themselves."

"How fond you are of finding morals in things.," Alice said.

"I daresay you're wondering why I don't put my arm round your waist. The," Duchess said.
reason is, that I'm doubtful about the temper of your flamingo. Shall I
try the experiment?

"He might bite.," Alice said.

"Very true; flamingoes and mustard both bite. And the moral of that," Duchess said.
is—"Birds of a feather flock together."

"Only mustard isn't a bird.," Alice said.

"Right, as usual; what a clear way you have of putting things.," Duchess said.

"It's a mineral, I think.," Alice said.

"Of course it is; there's a large mustard mine near here. And the moral of," Duchess said.
that is—"The more there is of mine, the less there is of yours."

"Oh! I know, it's a vegetable. It doesn't look like one, but it is.," Alice said.

"I quite agree with you, and the moral of that is—"Be what you would seem," Duchess said.
to be;" or, if you'd like it put more simply, "Never imagine yourself not
to be otherwise than what it might appear to others that what you were or
might have been was not otherwise than what you had been would have
appeared to them to be otherwise."

"I think I should understand that better if I had it written down, but I," Alice said.
can't quite follow it as you say it.

"That's nothing to what I could say if I chose.," Duchess said.

"Pray don't trouble yourself to say it any longer than that.," Alice said.

"Oh, don't talk about trouble; I make you a present of everything I've said," Duchess said.
as yet.

"Uhm!," Alice said.

"Thinking again?," Duchess said.

"I've got a right to think.," Alice said.

"Just about as much right as pigs have to fly, and the moral—," Duchess said.

[_The arm of the DUCHESS begins to tremble and her voice dies down. The
QUEEN OF HEARTS stands before them with folded arms and frowning like a
thunderstorm._]

"A fine day, your Majesty.," Duchess said.

"Now, I give you fair warning, either you or your head must be off, and," Queen said.
that in about half no time. Take your choice!

[The DUCHESS goes meekly into the house.]

Let's go on with the game.

[_She goes off and shouts at intervals, "Off with his head; off with her
head."_]

"How are you getting on?," Cat said.

"It's no use speaking to you till your ears have come. I don't think they," Alice said.
play at all fairly and they all quarrel so and they don't seem to have any
rules in particular. And you've no idea how confusing it is with all the
things alive; there's the arch I've got to go through next walking about
at the other end of the ground—and I should have croqueted the Queen's
hedgehog just now, only it ran away when it saw mine coming.

[Music begins.]

"How do you like the Queen?," Cat said.

"Not at all; she's so extremely—," Alice said.

[_The KING, QUEEN and entire court enter. The QUEEN is near to ALICE. The
music stops and all look at ALICE questioningly._]

[ALICE tries to propitiate the QUEEN.]

—likely to win,

[Music continues.]

that it's hardly worth while finishing the game.

[QUEEN smiles and passes on.]

"Who are you talking to?," King said.

"It's a friend of mine—a Cheshire Cat—allow me to introduce it.," Alice said.

"I don't like the look of it at all; however, it may kiss my hand if it," King said.
likes.

"I'd rather not.," Cat said.

"Don't be impertinent and don't look at me like that.," King said.

"A cat may look at a king. I've read that in some book, but I don't," Alice said.
remember where.

"Well, it must be removed. My dear! I wish you would have this cat removed.," King said.

"Off with his head!," Queen said.

"But you can't cut off a head unless there's a body to cut it off from.," Knave said.

"Anything that has a head can be beheaded.," King said.

"If something isn't done about it in less than no time, I'll have everybody," Queen said.
executed, all round.

"It belongs to the Duchess; you'd better ask her about it.," Alice said.

"It's a lie!," Duchess said.

"You'd better ask me. Do it if you can.," Cat said.

[It grins away. The DUCHESS and FROG escape into the house.]

"Cut it off!," Queen said.

"It's gone.," King said.

"It's gone! It's gone! Where, where, where—," Everybody said.

"Cut it off. Cut them all off!," Queen said.

"No, no, no!," Everybody said.

"Save me, save me!," Alice said.

"[Shouts to ALICE and gives her a tart for safety.]," Knave said.

Take a tart!

"[Seeing ALICE stand out a moment from the others.]," Queen said.

Cut hers off! Cut hers off!

"[Glad to distract QUEEN'S attention from themselves.]," Others said.

Cut hers off, cut hers off, cut—

"[_Cries in fear and takes a quick bite at the tart. If there is a trap," Alice said.
door on the stage ALICE disappears down it, leaving the crowd circling
around the hole screaming and amazed. If the stage has no trap door, a
bridge is built across the footlights with stairs leading down into the
orchestra pit. When the crowd is chasing ALICE she jumps over the
footlights onto the bridge and as the curtain is falling dividing her from
the crowd she appeals to the audience, "Save me, save me, who will save
me?" and runs down the stairs and disappears._]

"_Is a garden of high, very conventional and artificial looking flowers. On," Curtain said.
a large mushroom sits the CATERPILLAR smoking a hookah. ALICE is whirling
about trying to get her equilibrium after her fall. She goes to the
mushroom timidly and, conscious of her size, for her chin reaches the top
of the mushroom, she gazes at the CATERPILLAR wonderingly. He looks at her
lazily and speaks in a languid voice._

"Who are you?," Caterpillar said.

"I—I hardly know, sir, just at present. The Queen frightened me so and," Alice said.
I've had an awfully funny fall down a tunnel or a sort of well. At least I
know who I was when I got up this morning, but I think I must have been
changed several times since then.

"What do you mean by that? Explain yourself.," Caterpillar said.

"I can't explain myself, I'm afraid, Sir, because I'm not myself, you see.," Alice said.
Being so many different sizes in a day is very confusing.

I think you ought to tell me who you are, first.

"Why?," Caterpillar said.

[As ALICE turns away.]

Come back. I've something important to say.

[ALICE comes back.]

Keep your temper.

"Is that all?," Alice said.

"No.," Caterpillar said.

[_He puffs at the hookah in silence; finally takes it out of his mouth and
unfolds his arms._]

So you think you're changed, do you?

"I'm afraid I am, Sir; I don't keep the same size.," Alice said.

"What size do you want to be?," Caterpillar said.

"I don't know. At least I've never been so small as a caterpillar.," Alice said.

"[Rears angrily.]," Caterpillar said.

It is a very good height indeed.

"But I'm not used to it; I wish you wouldn't all be so easily offended.," Alice said.

"You'll get used to it in time.," Caterpillar said.

"Are you too big or am I too small?," Alice said.

[She compares her height wonderingly with the tall flowers.]

"[_Looks at her sleepily, yawns, shakes himself, slides down from the," Caterpillar said.
mushroom and crawls slowly away._]

One side will make you grow taller, and the other side will make you grow
shorter.

"One side of what? The other side of what?," Alice said.

"Of the mushroom.," Caterpillar said.

[ALICE hesitates, then embraces mushroom and picks bit from each side.]

[_Three gardeners representing spades enter carrying brushes and red paint
cans._]

TWO-SPOT

Look out now, Five. Don't go splashing paint over me like that.

FIVE-SPOT

I couldn't help it. Seven jogged my elbow.

SEVEN-SPOT

That's right, Five, always lay the blame on others.

FIVE-SPOT

You'd better not talk. I heard the Queen say only yesterday you deserved
to be beheaded.

TWO-SPOT

What for?

SEVEN-SPOT

That's none of your business, Two.

FIVE-SPOT

Yes, it is his business, and I'll tell him. It was for bringing the cook
tulip roots instead of onions.

SEVEN-SPOT

Well, of all the unjust things—

[Sees ALICE; others look around, all bow.]

"Could you please tell me what side to eat?," Alice said.

[FIVE and SEVEN look at TWO.]

TWO-SPOT

I don't know anything about it.

[He paints a white rose, red.]

You ought to have been red, we put you in by mistake, and if the Queen was
to find it out we should all have our heads cut off.

[A thumping is heard off stage and the music grows louder and louder.]

"What's that?," Alice said.

FIVE-SPOT

The White Chess Queen.

SEVEN-SPOT

Don't let her see what we are doing.

TWO-SPOT

She'll tell on us.

SEVEN-SPOT

Run out and stop her from coming here.

FIVE-SPOT

[To ALICE as she runs to the right.]

No, no, the other way.

"But she's off there!," Alice said.

TWO-SPOT

You can only meet her by walking the other way.

"Oh! what nonsense.," Alice said.

"Go the other way!," All The Gardeners said.

"[Re-enters in dismay and dashes out to the left.]," Alice said.

She's running away from me.

[_The WHITE QUEEN backs in from right and ALICE backs in from left. They
meet. The gardeners cry "The Queen" and throw themselves flat upon the
ground; their backs are like the backs of the rest of the pack. Music
stops. ALICE looks at the QUEEN curiously._]

"Oh, there you are! Why, I'm just the size I was when I saw you last.," Alice said.

"Of course you are, and who are these? I can't tell them by their backs.," White Queen said.

[She turns them over with her foot.]

Turn over. Ah! I thought so! Get up! What have you been doing here?

TWO-SPOT

May it please your Majesty, we were trying—

"[Examines rose.]," White Queen said.

I see! Begone, or I'll send the horses after you, and tell the Queen of
Hearts.

[_GARDENERS rush off. The RED QUEEN enters. ALICE has gone to the mushroom
again to look at its sides and there to her amazement finds a gold crown
and scepter, which she immediately appropriates. Music. The QUEENS watch
ALICE superciliously. ALICE puts on her crown, proudly exclaiming in great
elation, "Queen Alice," and walks down stage bowing right and left to the
homage of imaginary subjects. She repeats as if scarcely daring to believe
it true, "Queen Alice." Music stops._]

"Ridiculous!," Red Queen said.

"Isn't this the Eighth Square?," Alice said.

"You can't be a Queen, you know, till you've passed the proper examination.," Red Queen said.

"The sooner we begin it, the better.," White Queen said.

"Please, would you tell me—," Alice said.

"Speak when you're spoken to.," Red Queen said.

"But if everybody obeyed that rule, and if you only spoke when you were," Alice said.
spoken to, and the other person always waited for you to begin, you see
nobody would ever say anything, so that—

"Preposterous.," Red Queen said.

"I only said "if."," Alice said.

"She says she only said "if."," Red Queen said.

"[Moans and wrings her hands.]," White Queen said.

But she said a great deal more than that. Ah, yes, so much more than that.

"So you did, you know; always speak the truth—think before you speak—and," Red Queen said.
write it down afterwards.

"I'm sure I didn't mean—," Alice said.

"That's just what I complained of. You should have meant! What do you," Red Queen said.
suppose is the use of a child without any meaning? Even a joke should have
some meaning—and a child's more important than a joke, I hope. You
couldn't deny that, even if you tried with both hands.

"I don't deny things with my hands.," Alice said.

"Nobody said you did. I said you couldn't if you tried.," Red Queen said.

"She's in that state of mind, that she wants to deny something—only she," White Queen said.
doesn't know what to deny!

"A nasty, vicious temper. I invite you to Alice's dinner party this," Red Queen said.
afternoon.

"And I invite you.," White Queen said.

"I didn't know I was to have a party at all; but if there is to be one, I," Alice said.
think I ought to invite the guests.

"We gave you the opportunity of doing it, but I dare say you've not had," Red Queen said.
many lessons in manners yet.

"Manners are not taught in lessons; lessons teach you to do sums, and," Alice said.
things of that sort.

"Can you do addition? What's one and one and one and one and one and one," White Queen said.
and one and one and one and one?

"I don't know. I lost count.," Alice said.

"She can't do addition; can you do subtraction? Take nine from eight.," Red Queen said.

"Nine from eight I can't, you know, but—," Alice said.

"She can't do subtraction. Can you do division? Divide a loaf by a," White Queen said.
knife—what's the answer to that?

"I suppose—," Alice said.

"[Answers for her.]," Red Queen said.

Bread and butter, of course. Try another subtraction sum. Take a bone from
a dog; what remains?

"The bone wouldn't remain, of course, if I took it—and the dog wouldn't," Alice said.
remain; it would come to bite me—and I'm sure I shouldn't remain.

"Then you think nothing would remain?," Red Queen said.

"I think that's the answer.," Alice said.

"Wrong as usual; the dog's temper would remain.," Red Queen said.

"But I don't see how—," Alice said.

"Why, look here; the dog would lose its temper, wouldn't it?," Red Queen said.

"Perhaps it would.," Alice said.

"Then if the dog went away, its temper would remain!," Red Queen said.

"They might go different ways! What dreadful nonsense we are talking.," Alice said.

"She can't do sums a bit!," Both Queens said.

"Can you do sums?," Alice said.

"I can do addition, if you give me time—but I can't do subtraction under," White Queen said.
any circumstances.

"Of course you know your A, B, C?," Red Queen said.

"To be sure I do.," Alice said.

"So do I; we'll often say it over together, dear. And I'll tell you a," White Queen said.
secret—I can read words of one letter. Isn't that grand? However, don't
be discouraged. You'll come to it in time.

"Can you answer useful questions? How is bread made?," Red Queen said.

"I know that! You take some flour—," Alice said.

"Where do you pick the flower? In a garden or in the hedges?," White Queen said.

"Well, it isn't picked at all. It's ground—," Alice said.

"How many acres of ground? You mustn't leave out so many things.," White Queen said.

"Fan her head! She'll be feverish after so much thinking.," Red Queen said.

[They fan her with bunches of leaves which blow her hair wildly.]

"Please—please—," Alice said.

"She's all right again now. Do you know languages? What's the French for," Red Queen said.
fiddle-de-dee?

"Fiddle-de-dee's not English.," Alice said.

"Who ever said it was?," Red Queen said.

"If you tell me what language fiddle-de-dee is, I'll tell you the French," Alice said.
for it!

"Queens never make bargains!," Red Queen said.

"I wish Queens never asked questions!," Alice said.

"Don't let us quarrel; what is the cause of lightning?," White Queen said.

"The cause of lightning is the thunder—no, no! I meant the other way.," Alice said.

"It's too late to correct it; when you've once said a thing, that fixes it,," Red Queen said.
and you must take the consequences.

"We had such a thunderstorm next Tuesday, you can't think.," White Queen said.

"She never could, you know.," Red Queen said.

"Part of the roof came off, and ever so much thunder got in—and it went," White Queen said.
rolling round the room in great lumps—and knocking over the tables and
things—till I was so frightened, I couldn't remember my own name!

"I never should try to remember my name in the middle of an accident.," Alice said.
Where would be the use of it?

"You must excuse her. She means well, but she can't help saying foolish," Red Queen said.
things, as a general rule. She never was really well brought up, but it's
amazing how good tempered she is! Pat her on the head, and see how pleased
she'll be! A little kindness and putting her hair in papers would do
wonders with her.

"[Gives a deep sigh and leans her head on ALICE'S shoulder.]," White Queen said.

I am so sleepy!

"She's tired, poor thing; smooth her hair—lend her your night cap—and," Red Queen said.
sing her a soothing lullaby.

"I haven't got a night cap with me, and I don't know any soothing," Alice said.
lullabies.

"I must do it myself, then.," Red Queen said.

Hush-a-by lady, in Alice's lap!
Till the feast's ready, we've time for a nap;
When the feast's over, we'll go to the ball—
Red Queen and White Queen and Alice and all!

And now you know the words.

[She puts her head on ALICE'S other shoulder.]

Just sing it through to me. I'm getting sleepy too.

[Both queens fall fast asleep and snore loudly.]

"What am I to do? Take care of two Queens asleep at once? Do wake up, you," Alice said.
heavy things!

[All lights go out, leaving a mysterious glow on ALICE and the queens.]

"[Blows trumpet off stage.]," White Rabbit said.

The trial's beginning!

"What trial is it?," Alice said.

"Who stole the tarts.," White Rabbit said.

"I ate a tart.," Alice said.

"You've got to be tried.," White Rabbit said.

"I don't want to be tried.," Alice said.

"You've got to be tried.," White Rabbit said.

"I won't be tried—I won't-I won't!," Alice said.

"_Is a court room suggesting playing cards. The jurymen are all kinds of," Scene Two said.
creatures. The KING and QUEEN OF HEARTS are seated on the throne. The
KNAVE is before them in chains. The WHITE RABBIT has a trumpet in one
hand, and a scroll of parchment in the other. In the middle of the court
stands a table with a large dish of tarts upon it._

"[Blows three blasts on his trumpet.]," White Rabbit said.

Silence in the court!

"[Watches jurymen writing busily on their slates.]," Alice said.

What are they doing? They can't have anything to put down yet, before the
trial's begun.

"They're putting down their names for fear they should forget them before," Knave said.
the end of the trial.

"Stupid things!," Alice said.

"Silence in the court!," White Rabbit said.

"[Write in chorus.]," Jurors said.

Stupid things!

"How do you spell stupid?," One Juror said.

"A nice muddle their slates will be in before the trial's over.," Alice said.

"There's a pencil squeaking. Cut it down!," Queen said.

"[In chorus as they write.]," Jurors said.

Squeaking—

"[Wears a crown over his wig; puts on his spectacles as he says.]," King said.

Herald, read the accusation!

[_Blows three blasts on his trumpet, unrolls parchment scroll and reads to
music._]

The Queen of Hearts, she made some tarts,
All on a summer day;
The Knave of Hearts, he stole those tarts,
And took them quite away!

"Consider your verdict!," King said.

"Not yet, not yet; there's a great deal to come before that.," White Rabbit said.

"Call the first witness.," King said.

"First witness!," White Rabbit said.

"[_Comes in with a teacup in one hand and a piece of bread and butter in," Hatter said.
the other._]

I beg your pardon, your Majesty, for bringing these in, but I hadn't quite
finished my tea when I was sent for.

"You ought to have finished; when did you begin?," King said.

"[Looks at the MARCH HARE, who follows him arm-in-arm with the DORMOUSE.]," Hatter said.

Fourteenth of March, I think it was.

"Fifteenth.," March Hare said.

"Sixteenth.," Dormouse said.

"Write that down.," King said.

"Fourteen, fifteen, sixteen—forty-five. Reduce that to shillings—," Jury said.

"Take off your hat.," King said.

"It isn't mine.," Hatter said.

"Stolen!," King said.

"Stolen!," Jury said.

"I keep them to sell. I've none of my own. I'm a hatter.," Hatter said.

"[Puts on her spectacles and stares at HATTER, who fidgets uncomfortably.]," Queen Of Hearts said.

"Give your evidence and don't be nervous, or I'll have you executed on the," King said.
spot.

[_The HATTER continues to shift nervously from one foot to the other,
looks uneasily at the QUEEN, trembles so that he shakes off both of his
shoes, and in his confusion bites a large piece out of his teacup instead
of the bread and butter._]

"I'm a poor man, your Majesty, and I hadn't but just begun my tea—not," Hatter said.
above a week or so—and what with the bread and butter getting so
thin—and the twinkling of the tea—

"The twinkling of what?," King said.

"It began with the tea.," Hatter said.

"Of course twinkling begins with a T. Do you take me for a dunce? Go on!," King said.

"I'm a poor man and most things twinkled after that—only the March Hare," Hatter said.
said—

"I didn't!," March Hare said.

"You did.," Hatter said.

"I deny it.," March Hare said.

"He denies it; leave out that part.," King said.

"But what did the Dormouse say?," Queen said.

"That I can't remember.," Hatter said.

"You must remember or I'll have you executed.," King said.

"[Drops teacup and bread and butter and goes down on one knee.]," Hatter said.

I'm a poor man, your Majesty.

"If that's all you know about it you may stand down.," King said.

"I can't go no lower; I'm on the floor as it is.," Hatter said.

"Then you may sit down.," King said.

"I'd rather finish my tea.," Hatter said.

"You may go.," King said.

[The HATTER goes out hurriedly, leaving one of his shoes behind.]

"[Nonchalantly to an officer.]," Queen said.

And just take his head off outside.

[_But the HATTER was out of sight before the officer could get to the
door._]

"Call the next witness!," King said.

"Next witness!," White Rabbit said.

[_The DUCHESS enters with a pepper pot, which she shakes about.
Everybody begins to sneeze. MARCH HARE sneezes and rushes out._]

"Give your evidence!," King said.

"Shan't!," Duchess said.

"Your Majesty must symbol-examine this witness.," White Rabbit said.

"Well, if I must, I must. What does your cook say tarts are made of?," King said.

"Pepper.," Duchess said.

[The DUCHESS shakes the pot and the court sneezes.]

"Treacle!," Dormouse said.

[The DUCHESS shakes the pot at him. He sneezes for the first time.]

"Collar the Dormouse! Behead the Dormouse! Turn that Dormouse out of court!," Queen said.
Suppress him! Pinch him! Off with his whiskers!

[_The whole court is in confusion, turning the DORMOUSE out, and while
it is settling down again the DUCHESS disappears._]

"The Duchess!," White Rabbit said.

"She's gone—she's gone.," Court said.

"Never mind!," King said.

[In a low tone to the QUEEN.]

Really, my dear, you must symbol-examine the next witness. It quite makes
my forehead ache! Call the next witness!

"[Fumbles with the parchment, then cries in a shrill little voice.]," White Rabbit said.

Alice!

"Here!," Alice said.

"What do you know about this business?," King said.

"Nothing whatever.," Alice said.

"[To the jury.]," King said.

That's very important.

"Unimportant, your Majesty means, of course.," White Rabbit said.

"Unimportant, of course I meant. Important—unimportant—unimportant—," King said.
important. Consider your verdict!

[Some of the jury write "important" and some write "unimportant."]

"There's more evidence to come yet, please your Majesty; this paper has," White Rabbit said.
just been picked up.

"What's in it?," Queen said.

"[Fumbles with a huge envelope.]," White Rabbit said.

I haven't opened it yet, but it seems to be a letter, written by the
prisoner to—to somebody.

"It must have been that unless it was written to nobody, which isn't usual,," King said.
you know.

"Who is it directed to?," Alice said.

"It isn't directed at all; in fact, there's nothing written on the," White Rabbit said.
outside.

[Takes out a tiny piece of paper.]

It isn't a letter at all; it's a set of verses.

"Are they in the prisoner's handwriting?," Queen said.

[The jury brightens up.]

"[Looks at the KNAVE'S hand. KNAVE hides his hand; the chains rattle.]," White Rabbit said.

No, they're not, and that's the queerest thing about it.

[The jury looks puzzled.]

"He must have imitated somebody else's hand!," King said.

"Please, your Majesty, I didn't write it and they can't prove I did;," Knave said.
there's no name signed at the end.

"If you didn't sign it that only makes the matter worse. You must have," King said.
meant some mischief, or else you'd have signed your name like an honest
man.

[At this there is a general clapping of hands.]

"That proves his guilt.," Queen said.

"It proves nothing of the sort! Why, you don't even know what they're," Alice said.
about.

"Read them!," King said.

"[Puts on his monocle.]," White Rabbit said.

Where shall I begin, please your Majesty?

"Begin at the beginning and go on till you come to the end, then stop.," King said.

""They told me you had been to her,," White Rabbit said.
And mentioned me to him;
She gave me a good character,
But said I could not swim.

"I gave her one, they gave him two,
You gave us three or more;
They all returned from him to you,
Though they were mine before.

"My notion was that you had been
(Before she had this fit)
An obstacle that came between
Him, and ourselves, and it.

"Don't let him know she liked him best,
For this must ever be
A secret, kept from all the rest,
Between yourself and me."

"That's the most important piece of evidence we've heard yet; so now let," King said.
the jury—

"If anyone of them can explain it, I'll give him sixpence. I don't believe," Alice said.
there's an atom of meaning in it.

"She doesn't believe there's an atom of meaning in it.," Jury said.

"If there's no meaning in it, that saves a world of trouble, you know, as," King said.
we needn't try to find any. And yet I don't know.

[Spreads out the verses on his knee and studies them.]

I seem to see some meaning after all. "Said I could not swim." You can't
swim, can you?

"[Shakes his head sadly and points to his suit.]," Knave said.

Do I look like it?

"All right, so far; "We know it to be true," that's the jury, of course; "I," King said.
gave her one, they gave him two" why that must be what he did with the
tarts, you know—

"But it goes on "they all returned from him to you."," Alice said.

"[Triumphantly pointing to the tarts.]," King said.

Why, there they are! Nothing can be clearer than that. Then again, "before
she had this fit," you never had fits, my dear, I think?

"Never!," Queen said.

"Then the words don't fit you.," King said.

[_There is dead silence, while the KING looks around at the court with a
smile._]

"It's a pun!," King said.

[Everybody laughs. Music.]

"Let the jury consider their verdict.," King said.

"No, no! Sentence first—verdict afterwards.," Queen said.

"Stuff and nonsense!," Alice said.

"[Furiously.]," Queen said.

Hold your tongue!

"I won't!," Alice said.

"Off with her head!," Queen said.

"Who cares for you?," Alice said.

"Cut it off!," Queen said.

"You're nothing but a pack of cards!," Alice said.

[_As lights go out and curtain falls all the characters hold their
positions as if petrified._]

"[_The curtain rises to show ALICE still asleep in the armchair, the fire," Curtain

Scene Three said.
in the grate suffusing her with its glow._]

"Wake up, Alice, it is time for tea.," Carroll said.

[_Off stage the characters repeat their most characteristic lines, "Off
with her head," "Consider your verdict," "Oh! my fur and whiskers"; the
DUCHESS sneezes, the cat cries, as if the characters were fading away
into the pack of real playing cards which shower through the mirror all
over ALICE. There is music._]

"[Wakes, rises, and looks about in surprise and wonderment.]," Alice said.

Why—it was a dream!

CURTAIN