Title: Memories of Mars

Author: Raymond F. Jones

　Newspaper reporters had to be objective about hospitals. A reporter's job was to stir other people's hearts, not their own. But that didn't mean anything now, Mel Hastings thought, when somewhere in this hospital, Alice was hovering between life and death.
　It had been far too long since Alice had been in the operating room. Something had gone wrong, he was sure. He looked at the clock. It would soon be dawn outside. To Mel Hastings, that signaled the passage of precious, irrevocable time. Alice should have been out of that white cavernous operating room by now.
　Mel sank further into his heavy chair. He resigned himself meekly to the slow creep of death, as if it were reaching out its tentacles to him. Suddenly, there was a roar in the distance, and from the window he saw a ray of light crossing the sky. He remembered it was the Martian Princess, a tourist spaceship.
　That was the last thing Alice said before she was taken away. "As soon as you're well, we'll come and visit Mars again. Then you'll remember it. It was so beautiful and fun—"
　My funny, wonderful Alice—she remained haunted by a strange delusion that we had traveled to Mars the first year we were married. That belief had taken hold of her for almost a year, and nothing he had said had shaken it. Neither of them had ever been to space.
　Now he wished he had taken her. It would have been worth it, no matter how much pain he would have had to endure. He had never told her about the phobia that had plagued him his whole life. He was afraid of outer space. Just thinking about it made him break out in a cold sweat. Nor had he told her about the recurring nightmares he had had since childhood.
　There had to be a way to overcome her fears, a way to take the trip to Mars that she wanted to go to.
　But it was too late, he knew.

　The white door slid open, and Dr. Winters slowly stepped out. He stared at Mel Hastings for a long time, as if trying to remember the journalist's name. "I need to talk to you. Come to my office," he said finally.
　Mel's mind was numb as he realized what it meant, and he stared back at the man with wide eyes. "He's dead."
　Dr. Winters nodded slowly, looking surprised and puzzled that Mel had seen through him. "We'll talk in my office," he repeated.
　Mel watched the doctor's figure. It seemed pointless to follow him. Dr. Winters had said everything there was to say. At the other end of the corridor, the doctor turned and stood patiently, knowing why he wasn't following, but seemingly determined to wait until he was. The reporter stirred and rose from his chair. His legs gave way. Dr. Winters' figure grew larger and larger as he approached. The morning din of the hospital was deafening. The office door slammed shut, blocking out the noise.
　"Your wife is dead." Dr. Winters sat behind his desk, clasping his hands together. He didn't look at Mel. "We did all we could, Mr. Hastings. The accident was relatively minor—" he hesitated, then continued. "Under normal circumstances, we would have been able to treat the injuries—without any trouble."
　"What do you mean? Under normal circumstances?"
　Dr. Winters looked away from Mel's gaze, trying to avoid the excruciating pain. He wearily rubbed his forehead and eyes, then held them for a moment before speaking. He met Mel's eyes again. "The woman you took in last night—your wife—had a completely different internal structure than normal. You couldn't even identify her internal organs. It was like the body of a different creature. She—she's not human, after all, Mr. Hastings."
　Mel stared blankly at him, trying to make sense of what he was saying. It just didn't make sense. He let out a short, hysterical roar of laughter. "What are you talking about, doc? Are you out of your mind?"
　Dr. Winters nodded. "I thought the same thing all night long. When I first saw your condition, I thought I was crazy. I called in six other doctors to confirm what I had seen. They were all astounded by what they saw. Organs not found in a human body. Chemical reactions not found in any living organism—"
　The doctor's words hit him like a raging wave, trying to drown him underwater, suffocate him, and take his last breath.
　"Let me see," Mel's voice sounded distant and hollow, like a throat clearing. "You're crazy. You're trying to cover up your mistake. You killed Alice with a simple operation, and now you're trying to avoid responsibility with some ridiculous story that no one will believe!"
　"Let me show you," said Dr. Winters, slowly rising to his feet. "That's why I called you here, Mr. Hastings."

　Mel followed the doctor down the long corridor again, not a word exchanged between them, and it all felt surreal to Mel now.
　They passed through the white doors of the operating room and then through another door behind it, into a cold, white, silent room.
　Illuminated by icy white light, a sheet-covered human form lay on the operating table. Mel suddenly didn't want to look, but Dr. Winters had already removed the covering. A face appeared, the face of his dear Alice Hastings. Mel called out his wife's name and approached the table. The face gave the impression of merely sleeping. Her hair was messy, but it had that relaxed, relaxed expression he had seen hundreds of times.
　"Can you see?" asked Dr. Winters anxiously. "Shall I give you a sedative?"
　Mel shook her head emotionlessly. "No—let me see."
　A large, fresh scar ran diagonally across his abdomen, branching out and reaching just below his heart. The doctor grabbed a pair of tiny scissors and quickly cut the temporary stitches. Forceps and retractors opened the enormous incision.
　Mel vomited and closed her eyes.
　"Gangrene! Gangrene everywhere!"
　Beneath the surface of the skin and fatty tissue, the injured tissue had turned from a deep red to a dark green, indicative of dead decay.
　But Dr. Winters shook his head. "No, it's not gangrene. That's how it looked when we saw it. It seems to be, um, normal."
　Mel couldn't believe it or understand it, she just stared.
　Dr. Winters opened the wound further. "There should be a stomach here," he said. "I don't know what this is instead. This organ doesn't have a name. This is where the intestines are, but it's just this greenish gelatinous substance spread evenly. There are other visceral tissues where the liver, pancreas, and spleen are, and they're almost indistinguishable from this gelatinous material."
　Mel seemed to hear the voice from far away, or in a dream.
　"He had lungs, or something like lungs," the doctor continued, "and he could certainly breathe. And he had a very deformed circulatory system. There seemed to be two: one to supply blood to the superficial tissues, which were almost normal, and the other to supply the fluid that gave the internal organs their greenish colour. But how it managed to circulate we don't know, for there was no heart."

　Mel Hastings burst into hysterical laughter. "Now I know you're crazy, doctor! Good, loving Alice has no heart! She used to say, 'I've got no brain, or I wouldn't have married a dumb newspaper reporter. But that's why I've got a heart. It was my heart that made me fall in love with you, not my head.' She loved me, can't you see?"
　Dr. Winters tried to gently lead him out. "Of course, I understand. Come here, Mr. Hastings. Lie down and rest for a while. I'll bring you something to cheer you up."
　Mel was led into a nearby small room, drank some liquids the doctor brought her, but made no attempt to lie down.
　"Yes, I did see it," he said, astonished but firm, "but explanations are useless. I knew Alice. She was a better person than either me or the doctor. There was nothing unusual about her—although since last year I've been convinced that we had been to Mars together at some point."
　"That's not true, is it?"
　"Yeah. Neither of us had ever been in space before."
　"How well did you know your wife before you got married?"
　Mel suddenly remembered the past and smiled. "We've been childhood friends. We went to the same elementary school and high school. It feels like there was never a time when we weren't together. Our families lived next door to each other for a long time."
　"Did your wife have a large family?"
　"An older brother, an older sister, and two younger sisters."
　"What were your parents like?"
　"They're still alive. Her father runs an appliance store. They live in a farming area. They're all wonderful people. Alice seemed like a real member of that family."
　Dr. Winters was silent, then continued: "There is one reason why I have caused you so much distress, Mr. Hastings. Otherwise I would never have given you a detailed account of your wife's condition, much less asked to see her body. But this is an extraordinary scientific case, and I would beg your help in solving it. In the interests of science, I would beg your permission to keep your wife's body and perform an autopsy."
　Mel looked at the doctor with sudden hostility. "You won't let me bury her? You're going to put her in a jar and make it seem like—"
　"Please do not get too worked up, but I urge you to consider my proposal carefully. A moment's reflection will show you that such a procedure is in no way barbaric, like any other custom towards the dead.
　No, that doesn't matter. The woman you married, Alice, appears normal so far as her outward appearance is concerned, but the internal tissues that give her life and function are the likes of which no human has ever seen. We must find out what this means, and it's up to you to give us the opportunity to do so."
　Mel tried to speak again, but no words came out.
　"We cannot waste a moment, but I do not wish to force you to give me an immediate answer. Please give me half an hour to think it over. In the meantime we must take further measures to preserve it. I apologize for being so hasty, but I would be grateful if you could give me a favorable answer."
　Dr. Winters started to go to the door, but Mel gestured him back.
　"Let me see her again."
　"There's no need for that. She's already suffered enough. I think you should remember her as you've always seen her, not as she was just now."
　"If you want an answer, show it to me again."

　Dr. Winters led him silently into a cold room. Mel pulled back the covers so only Alice's face was exposed. There was no mistake. Somehow, he had hoped the whole thing would be a huge mistake, but this wasn't a mistake at all.
　He wondered if she wanted him to listen to the doctors' wishes. He didn't care either way. She probably thought it was a crazy joke that he'd been born with different organs. She'd grin at the sight of learned doctors probing and whispering, trying to explain the inexplicable.
　Mel gently put the covers back over her face.
　"Do as you like," he said to Dr. Winters. "It's none of our business—none of hers, none of mine."

　Dr. Winters' sedative and her own fatigue lulled Mel to sleep for a few hours in the afternoon, but by evening she woke and realized she wasn't going to get any sleep that night - she couldn't bear to spend another night in a house filled with vivid memories of Alice.
　As darkness began to fall, he walked out into the city. It was easy; there were hardly any people walking anymore. The hustle and bustle of private and commercial vehicles jostled overhead and roared beneath the ground. He was a lonely anachronism, walking silently on the outskirts of a big city.
　He was sick of the city. He wanted to turn his back on it, to leave it forever. Alice felt the same way, but there was nowhere else to go. All he was good at was writing news stories, and news only happened in big, ugly cities. The farming areas he and Alice had grown up in didn't produce anything interesting for the casual town- and city-dwellers. All they produced was food, and much of it was now made in giant factories that synthesized proteins and carbohydrates. Once we could synthesize fats too, there would be no need for farmers.
　He thought he could get out of the city now. Alice was gone, he was alone, and he didn't need much. For some reason, he suddenly had a burning desire to see his hometown again. And he needed to contact her family.

　The antiquated streetcar arrived in the Central Valley the next afternoon, and the scenery was as irresistibly comforting as when Mel had last seen it: endless land, endless rows of fertile fields.
　The bus passed the high school where Mel and Alice had taken classes together, and he half expected Alice to run across the school lawn to meet him. When he got off in the middle of town, Alice's parents were waiting for him.
　His tears had dried, but the shock had left his face pale and numb. George Dalby took his hand and shook it gravely. "I can't believe it, Mel. I can't believe Alice is dead."
　His wife held Mel close and tried to hold back the tears that were once again welling up. "You never said anything about a funeral. When is it going to be?"
　Mel swallowed, struggling with the lie he had to tell. He almost regretted having listened to Dr. Winters' request. "Alice—she always tried to do good for the world," he said. "She had an agreement with the research hospital where she would donate her body, so that she could still be useful in death."
　For a moment the mother couldn't comprehend what this meant, then she cried out, "You mean we can't even bury him?"
　"We'll hold a memorial service here in our hometown where all our friends are," Mel said.
　George Dalby nodded sadly. "That's just like you, Alice. Always thinking of ways to do other people a favor—"
　That was certainly true, Mel thought. If Alice had known there was no hope of survival, she probably would have brought up the idea herself. Her parents were easily convinced.
　They took Mel to a familiar home and let him stay in the same room where he and Alice had spent their first few days of marriage.

　When the lights went out at night, he felt like he could sleep normally for the first time since Alice's accident. In this familiar house, he didn't feel like she was far away.
　She remains a hazy memory. He was confident he could remember even the smallest details about her. The first time he became aware of her was one day in their third year. At the start of the school year, the younger students were required to be weighed, have a health check, and be tested for beriberi and tooth decay. That year, Mel was late for her test and ran into the wrong room. Amid the sounds of girls' screams, the teacher kindly showed them where the boys' room was.
　But what he remembers most vividly was Alice Dalby in the middle of the room, protectively covering her blouse, hopping around angrily and pointing her finger at him: "Get out, Melvyn Hastings! How disgusting!"
　Blushing, he made a hasty retreat. The teacher tried to reassure Alice and the other girls that it was just an accidental mistake, but Alice was furious, and didn't speak to him for a week.
　He smiled as he sank his head into the pillow. He remembered how proud he'd been when Dr. Collins came to examine him every autumn and told him there was nothing wrong with his body, and that if he kept up his milk intake he could become a football player. He could still recall the doctor's whispered words and the coolness of the stethoscope against his chest.
　Suddenly he jumped up in his bed in the dark.
　Stethoscope!
　Not only that day, but on other checkup days throughout the year, Alice must have had her knees tapped, examined, and had a stethoscope placed on her.
　If he hadn't heard her heartbeat, Dr. Collins would have fainted - and spread the word all over town!
　Mel rose to his feet and stood at the window, his heart pounding. Dr. Collins was dead, but the school's physical records might still be around somewhere. He didn't know what they would prove, but they might tell a different story than Dr. Winters'.
　The investigation took most of the next day, and the elementary school principal helped us search the school's dusty attic, where old records and papers were scattered about and overflowing from cardboard boxes.
　Later, Paul Ames, the school board secretary, took Mel to the district office to look over the records. The old building was oppressively hot and dusty, having been unused all summer. But in the cool, cobweb-filled basement, they found them: Alice's records from the third through ninth grades. Each one read, "Heart - No Abnormality," and "Lungs - Normal." Her pulse and blood pressure were also recorded on separate graphs.
　"I'd like to bring this with me," Mel said. "Her doctor, you see, is writing a paper based on her case, so he's gathering as much medical history as he can."
　Paul Ames thought grimacingly, "It's forbidden to give away district property, though this should have been disposed of a long time ago—you may take it, but don't tell anyone I gave you permission."
　"Thank you. I'll be grateful," Mel said.
　She'd also had her appendix removed when she was fourteen or fifteen, a doctor named Brown, Mel remembered, who had performed the operation. He had succeeded Collins.
　"Of course, he's still here," said Paul Ames. "He's in Dr. Collins's old office. Maybe you can meet him if you go there now."
　Dr. Brown remembered, and although he didn't remember the details of the appendectomy, he had records showing that the operation had gone perfectly fine.
　"Could you please make a copy of the records and sign them?" Mel said. He didn't reveal the truth, just explained that Dr. Winters was interested in her case.
　"With pleasure," said Dr. Brown, "I'm sorry to say that you've had a hard time. Alice was one of the prettiest girls we've had in the country."

　A special memorial service was held Sunday afternoon at the old community church. It was like a curtain was drawn on a part of Mel's life. A curtain that Mel knew would never be lifted again.
　After the ceremony, we immediately boarded a bus to leave town.
　One last bit of evidence was found, and on the way back to the city I wondered why I hadn't thought of it first. Alice's pregnancy ended in miscarriage, and they never had another child.
　But to find the cause of the problem, they took an x-ray, and if the x-ray showed that Alice had been normal for the past two years...

　Dr. Winters was a little surprised to see Mel again. He invited the journalist into his office and invited him to sit down. "You came to ask me if I found out anything about your wife."
　"Yes, if you know anything," Mel said. "I have a couple of things I'd like to show you."
　"Very little is known beyond what was learned the night of his death. The dissection is complete, and we are now carrying out a detailed analysis of each organ and subjecting the tissues to chemical analysis. The skeleton is as unique as the tissues; its structure is unrelated to any other species known to us, human or animal."
　"But Alice wasn't always like that," Mel said.
　Dr. Winters looked at him sharply. "How do you know that?"
　Mel unfolded the medical records he'd gotten from Central Valley. Dr. Winters picked them up and studied them long and carefully while Mel stared at them silently.
　"We also have X-rays," Mel said. "Alice had an X-ray of her pelvis only a couple of years ago. I was going to get it, but the doctor said I couldn't get it unless you asked for it. It would be absolute proof that the Alice then was not the Alice now."
　"Please let me know if you have one and I'll get it for you right away."
　An hour later, Dr. Winters shook his head in disbelief. "I can't believe this is a photo of your wife, but it matches the rest of the medical records. It shows perfectly normal anatomy."
　The two men sat silent across the table, neither wanting to voice their confused thoughts. Dr. Winters finally spoke up. "It must be this, Mr. Hastings," he said, "that this woman—this utterly alien being—was not your wife Alice. I cannot tell you where or how it happened, but there must have been a mix-up, a substitution of like objects."
　"I kept an eye on her," Mel said. "When I got home that night, nothing strange happened. We went out to the movies, and then we had an accident on the way home. There's no way they could have switched bodies—not in this place, in this hospital. But I was sure I saw Alice, so I asked to see her again—to be sure."
　"But the evidence you have proves that it was not your wife. These records, these X-rays, show that the woman you married, Alice, was perfectly normal. There is absolutely no way she could have transformed into the person we operated on."
　Mel stared at the reflection of the sky in the glossy surface of the desk. "I don't know the answer," he said. "That wasn't Alice. But if it wasn't Alice, where was the real one?"
　"This could become a police matter," said Dr. Winters. "There's a lot to unravel in this mystery."
　"There's one more thing," Mel said. "Fingerprints. When Alice first got here, she got a job that required her to have her fingerprints taken."
　"That's good!" cried Dr. Winters. "That will be the final piece of evidence."
　The rest of the afternoon was spent retrieving and comparing fingerprint records. Dr. Winters called Mel's house to report that there was no doubt about it, the fingerprints matched, and the body belonged to Alice Hastings.

　That night he had another nightmare. It was the worst dream he had ever remembered. As always, it was of outer space, of black, empty space. He was floating alone in its abyss, with no up or down, no left or right. He was caught in a dizzying whirlpool, and in a desperate effort he stretched out his arms, trying to cling to something solid.
　But there's just space.
　After a while he was no longer alone. He couldn't see them, but he knew they were there. A search party. He didn't know why he had to run, why they were looking for him, but he knew he couldn't get caught. If he was caught, it would all be over.
　Somehow, he found his way through the empty space. The search party was becoming specks of light in the distance. Their presence gave him a sense of direction. His life, his existence, the universe that made sense to him and that he could understand, depended on successfully escaping them. He wandered faster and faster through the desolate, black depths of space.
　He never knew if he'd managed to escape. He always woke up wrapped in crumpled blankets, drenched in sweat, and terrified. For so long Alice had been by his side, holding his hand when he woke, but now she was gone. And he was tired of the nightly chase. Sometimes he wished the dream would end with the search parties—whoever they might be—catching up with him and leaving him at their mercy. Then the nightmare would end. Maybe Mel Hastings would be gone. But that wouldn't be so bad.
　He tossed and turned for the rest of the night, unable to sleep, and rose at dawn feeling as if he had never gone to bed. He would have another day off and return to the newsroom, where he would do something he could no longer put off: gather up and put away Alice's belongings.

　After shaving, showering, and getting dressed, he began emptying each drawer. They were full of souvenirs and keepsakes; she had always collected them. The bottom drawer was filled with things he'd only seen occasionally.
　At the bottom of some junk in the drawer was a brochure for a trip to Mars. It must have been one of her lifelong dreams, he thought. He had been so eager to go that it was beginning to feel like it was actually happening. He flipped through the smooth, glossy brochure. On the cover was a photo of the huge Martian Princess and the logo of Connemora Space Airlines. Inside were gorgeous photos of the interior of a huge tourist spaceship and a picture of a domed city on Mars, where Earthlings would use more energy to play than to work. Mars had become one of Earth's biggest resort centers.
　Mel closed the pamphlet and looked again at the name Conemora. Only one man had ever made enough money to operate a private space route: Jim Conemora. No one knew how he made it, but now he was flying spaceships from both hemispheres. He didn't handle cargo, he specialized in passenger transport. His profits were far greater than those of government-run routes.
　Mel sat down on the floor and continued rummaging through the other items in the drawer.
　My hands stopped moving, and as I stood there, a nagging question suddenly welled up in my mind: there was an envelope with a ticket bearing the logo of Connemora Space Airlines.
　The envelope was empty, with no name on it, but it was wrinkled, as if it had been taken to Mars and back again.
　Suddenly, in a frenzy, he began to go through the items one by one, piling them carelessly on the floor. There was a set of trivial Martian dolls, a tourist's map of a ruined Martian city, a menu for the Red Sands Hotel.
　Beneath it all he found a photo album. Alice at the Red Sands Hotel. Alice at Phobos Oasis. Alice at the Darnera Ruins. He flipped through the album's pages with numb fingers. There were photos of Alice with more than a dozen different Martian backgrounds. Some were old. About two years old. They had gone together, Alice had said. But there was nothing to indicate that Mel had accompanied them on the trip.
　But it was equally impossible that Alice had travelled. And yet here was the evidence, evidence that made him doubt his senses. How could this have happened? Had he really travelled, and had the phobia that had haunted him all his life erased the memory of it?
　And what does this have to do with Dr. Winters' incredible discovery about Alice?
　He sat slumped over with grief and fatigue, fingers meaninglessly playing with his keepsakes, staring blankly at the photographs, ticket envelopes, and souvenirs.

　Dr. Winters couldn't help but sound a little harsh. "I don't think a random trip to Mars will solve anything. It'll just cost us a lot of money. We don't have a single solid lead."
　"That's the only thing I can think of," Mel insisted. "Something happened on Mars and turned her into the person you saw on the operating table."
　"You're desperately trying to prove that the people have been swapped, on the slim chance that Alice is still alive."
　Mel bit his lip. He didn't want to admit that he had such hopes, but they were the basis of his decision. "You have to do what you can. I'll do it. If you don't, you'll suffer in uncertainty for the rest of your life."
　Dr. Winters shook his head. "I still think you should stop. It'll only disappoint you."
　"I've made up my mind. Can you help me?"
　"What can I do for you?"
　"To go into space, I need to get rid of my phobia, even if only temporarily. Just thinking about going into space makes me go crazy. Are there any medicines or hypnotherapy or anything that can help with that?"
　"That's outside my area of expertise," said Dr. Winters, "but I fear you can't suppress the cause of the problem; you have to get rid of it at the source. The only cure would be mental regeneration, which I can recommend to any good doctor. However, this is quite expensive."
　"We should have gotten treatment for Alice—a long time ago," Mel said.

　Psychiatrist Dr. Martin was intrigued by Mel's case: "It appears to be a childhood trauma that has been erased from consciousness ever since. The degree to which the original event has been repressed will determine how difficult it is to recover."
　"I don't care about origin events," Mel said, "just to get rid of this indescribable fear of space. Dr. Winters said I'd need restorative therapy."
　"Exactly. That kind of phobia will haunt you no matter how much you try to cover it up and suppress it. Let us first carry out a trial test to analyze the symptoms, so that we can more accurately judge whether it will ultimately be successful."
　As a newspaper reporter, Mel Hastings had vaguely heard of psychological restitution therapy, but he didn't know the details. Apparently it involved some kind of machine that tapped into the depths of the human psyche, digging up the hidden debris stored in the basements and attics of the mind. But he had always been intimidated by it and avoided it.
　His resolve nearly vanished when Dr. Martin led him into the psychiatric rehab room for the first time, which had the appearance, above all, of a complex electronics laboratory, staffed by an operator and five assistants in nurses' uniforms.
　"Lie down here," said Dr. Martin.
　Mel felt like he was the subject of some inhuman biological experiment. A cage of terminals was placed over his head, and thousands of tiny electrodes were attached to it. The faint buzzing of the equipment sent a small wave of anxiety through him.
　Half an hour later, when the preparations were complete, the lights in the room were dimmed, and he sensed the presence of an operator operating the panel, and vaguely recognized Dr. Martin sitting nearby.
　"Recall as vividly as possible the last time you saw the nightmare you described. We'll zero in on you and track you."
　It was the last thing Mel wanted to do in the world. He lay in agony and indecisive. He remembered having had a dream only moments before, but he refused to actually remember what it was about.
　"Don't resist," Dr. Martin said gently. "Don't resist the memory—"
　A part of his mind let down its guard for a moment. It was as if he had touched the surface of a whirlpool, and he was sucked into the depths of the dream. As he was sucked in, he thought he let out a cry of terror, but no one heard him. He was floating alone in space.
　Fear enveloped him like a black, sticky fur. He felt that there was absolutely no point in even being afraid. He would just stay like this, because soon he would cease to exist.
　But they came again. He saw them, or rather, felt them. A search party. His fear of them was greater than his fear of being alone in space. He moved. Somehow, he was away, hurtling through the endless void. Dots of light multiplied behind him.
　"Very well," said Dr. Martin. "It's been a very satisfactory examination."
　The voice seemed to come from across a vast barrier of space and time. Mel realized she was covered in sweat. Her exhausted muscles throbbed.
　"This is a very strong starting point for analysis," said Dr. Martin. "From here we can work our way backward through the experience and unearth the whole picture. Are you ready, Mr. Hastings?"
　Mel was too weak to nod. "Please," he muttered weakly.

　It was a warm, sunny day, and he and Alice had arrived at the spaceport early, enjoying the excitement of the pre-departure trip, a journey they had both dreamed of since childhood, to explore the amazing domed cities and ruins of Mars.
　Alice was awed when she saw the huge spaceship lying on the mooring facing Lake Michigan for the first time up close. "It's so big! How can such a big spaceship fly outside of Earth?"
　Mel laughed. "Don't worry about that. I know it flies, and that's all I need." But even he couldn't help but marvel at the immense size and elegant outline of the luxury ship. Unlike Alice, this wasn't the first time he'd seen a spaceship up close. He'd seen spaceships many times in his work as a newspaper reporter, visiting the fantastic resort of Mars and interviewing famous people who had returned from there.
　"Keep an eye out," Mel said, "because every time it takes off or lands, you'll spot a bunch of famous people in the news."
　Alice clung to Mel's arm and blushed as she spotted some of the famous people who would be traveling with her. "Sounds like a great trip, honey."
　"It's so much fun I could arch my back," Mel said in a casual tone, but she was actually enjoying Alice's bursting with excitement.
　The ship was so perfectly balanced that passengers didn't even need to take their seats for takeoff. They crowded around the portholes, watching land and water fly past as the ship took off, halfway over Lake Michigan. As it steadily gained speed and entered the upper atmosphere, an artificial gravity system kicked in, giving the illusion of level flight while the Earth slowly receded behind it.
　Mel and Alice wandered the fairytale-like salon and spacious decks, losing all sense of time as they floated with the giant spaceship through eternity and infinity.
　He couldn't quite remember when he first felt uneasy, but it seemed to him that it was due to a change in the attitude of the crew, who, wherever they had been, had always tried to please and entertain the passengers, but on the third morning they had suddenly stopped this attentiveness.
　Most of the passengers didn't seem to notice, and when I told Alice she laughed, "What did you expect? We've been showing you around the ship and teaching you how to play games for two whole days. You thought we were going to keep you safe for the rest of the trip?"
　"I suppose you're right," Mel said, not entirely convinced. "But what on earth are they doing? They all seem to be rushing off somewhere this morning."
　"There must be something I need to do, something to do with the navigation of the ship."
　Mel shook her head doubtfully.

　Alice wandered the deck with him, peering over the shoulders of the other passengers playing games, and looking at the stars and nebulae on one of the many telephoto screens. It was while looking at one that they first spotted the shadow floating in space. It was small at first, but then the black shadow crossed in front of a star, causing it to twinkle. It caught Mel's attention. A star twinkling in the pitch black of space.
　Sure enough, he tried to draw Alice's attention to it: "There's something moving over there." By now the shadow had taken the shape of a small black bullet.
　"Where? I can't see anything."
　"It's moving through a cluster of stars. Look, it's hiding the stars as it moves."
　"Another spaceship!" cried Alice. "How thrilling! To pass another spaceship in this vast universe! I wonder where it came from."
　"And where are you going?"
　They watched its slow, precise movement across the stars. A few minutes later a crew member passed by. Mel called him over and pointed at the screen. "What's that ship?"
　The crew member seemed to recognize it at a glance, but didn't immediately respond. "Mars liner," he finally said. "You'll hear an announcement shortly about docking and transfers."
　"A transfer?" Mel asked curiously. "I didn't hear anything about a transfer."
　"No, you're transferring," the attendant said, "This is just a shuttle. We're transferring to the regular liner for the rest of the journey. That was explained to you when you bought your ticket." He hurried off.
　Mel could say with certainty that no such explanation had been given when she purchased her ticket. She turned back to the screen and saw the black spaceship growing larger and closer, on a connecting course with the Martian Princess.
　An announcement suddenly rang out over the ship's intercom: "This is the captain. All passengers, please prepare to transfer from the shuttle to the Mars liner. Please gather your baggage. Your luggage will be transferred without being handed over to you. Thank you very much for boarding. We are scheduled to connect with the liner in fifteen minutes."
　From the murmurs around them, Mel knew the others were surprised too, but they were too excited to question it.
　Even Alice was getting excited now. Other people, noticing what they were looking at, gathered round. 'It's so big,' Alice whispered, 'much bigger than this ship.'
　Mel moved to give the others his place in front of the screen. His sense of foreboding grew stronger as he thought of the huge, black spaceship approaching. He was certain that the spaceship was pitch black. It wasn't because the screen was black and white.
　Why would they transfer passengers in the middle of space? The Martian Princess was perfectly capable of traveling all the way to Mars; in fact, they were already more than a third of the way there. He wasn't sure why he felt this way, but something was off. Surely a company as big as Connemora Space Airlines wouldn't inconvenience over 5,000 passengers. He thought it was ridiculous that he had such a bad feeling.
　But the uneasiness did not go away.
　He returned to the crowd around the screen, took Alice's arm, and led her away.
　She looked at him quizzically. "I've never been more excited about this. I want to watch."
　"We're short on time," Mel said. "There's a lot to pack in the suitcases. Let's go back downstairs."
　"Everyone needs to pack their bags. There's no rush."
　"The captain said fifteen minutes. I don't want to be the last one standing."
　Alice followed reluctantly. Their rooms were quite far from the salon, and nearly fifteen minutes had passed when they reached them.

　Mel closed the door and put his hand on Alice's shoulder. He looked around cautiously. "Alice, I don't want to get on that ship. Something's wrong. I don't know what it is, but let's not get on that ship."
　Alice looked at him intently. "Are you out of your mind? After all those exciting plans, you don't want to go to Mars now?"
　Mel felt as if a wall had suddenly risen between them. He grabbed Alice's shoulder in desperation. "Alice -- I don't believe that ship is going to Mars. This might sound crazy, but listen -- there was no mention of the Martian Princess being just a shuttle, or that we were transferring to another ship here. No one ever said that. The Martian Princess is a spaceship that can fly all the way to Mars with no problem. There's no way a ship that big is just a shuttle."
　"That spaceship is bigger."
　"Why do you need something bigger? Can't you continue your journey without something bigger?"
　Alice shook off his hand. "I don't know, and I don't want to know!" she said angrily.
　"You're crazy if you think I'm going to give up my vacation and turn back here in space. If you want to go home, go home alone!"
　Alice spun around and ran for the door. Mel chased after her, but by the time he got to the door, she had already gone through it and was blending into the churning crowd. He couldn't force her back to the room; she would probably be back in a few minutes to pack her things. He went back in and closed the door.

　But Mel knew his guess was wrong. Alice was no match for him in a contest of wills. She would assume he would pack his bags and follow her, and board another ship. He sat on his bed and held his head for a moment. A faint vibration ran through the hull of the ship, followed by the hollow rumble of metal clanging. The unknown ship had docked with the Martian Princess. They were now connecting the airlock.
　Through the porthole he could see an incredibly large spaceship. He went over to the window and pushed aside the curtains. His impression was correct: the ship was pitch black. Black, with no name and no windows. There were no markings or portholes on the hull, as far as he could see.
　He had no idea what to do, but he was certain he would not board that ship. As he paced the room, he told himself that the anxiety that filled him was nothing more than a stupid neurotic, that a company as big as Connemora Aerospace would never do anything bad to 5,000 people—or even to one person. Surely they couldn't risk something like that.
　He couldn't shake off the anxiety, and he resolved that whatever happened, he would not board that black ship.
　He looked around the room. He couldn't stay here. They'd find him. He had to hide somewhere. He stood still, staring out the porthole. There was no safe place to hide on the ship.
　But what about overboard?
　Thinking of Alice dampened his resolve. But whatever that black ship was, if he was on board, he wouldn't be able to save anyone. He had to get back to Earth, find out what had happened, and warn the authorities. That was the only way to save Alice.

　He carefully opened the door to his room and stepped out. The corridor was filled with passengers hurrying along, carrying their luggage and laughing excitedly at each other. He joined them, walking slowly, wary of the flight attendants. There appeared to be no flight attendants in the corridor.
　He moved steadily along the wall with the crowd until he came to a circular alcove marked "Escape Room." He entered backwards, as if pushed by the rushing crowd. Automatic doors swung open to accommodate him, then closed.
　This small room was one of dozens created by law on board. Escape rooms contain spacesuits for individuals to escape from the ship in an emergency. This room was never meant to be used. In the event of an emergency requiring abandon ship, donning a spacesuit and heading out into space would be just as suicidal as staying on board. Yet stubborn legislators legislated the requirement, and passengers received perfunctory instructions on how to use the room and the spacesuits, though the instructions went in one ear and out the other.
　Mel desperately tried to remember the instructions. As he examined the suit hanging in a cabinet, he found a relief when he spotted an instruction panel taped to the paneling that repeated the same instructions. He slowly, step by step, put on the suit as instructed. He began to sweat profusely from the struggle to put it on and the fear of being discovered.
　He finally managed to get this unwieldy equipment in place without being detected. He wondered if the airlock to this room had an alarm to alert the crew if it was opened. It was a gamble. He noticed that the door lock could only be operated from inside the suit, apparently preventing anyone from leaving the ship unprotected. With such safeguards in place, there probably wasn't an alarm.
　He twisted the lock and stepped inside, opening the outer door to reveal the darkness of outer space.

　He had never expected anything to make him cower so terrified. In an instant, his knees gave way and he clung to the side of the hatch. Sweat began to pour out of every pore in his skin. He blindly pressed the jets and forced himself into space.
　After a short arc following the curve of the ship, I came into contact with the hull, nauseous and dizzy, clinging on with magnetic pads on my feet and hands.
　He'd thought that if he clung to the outside of the craft, he wouldn't be found and would be able to survive the flight back to Earth. Now, exhausted both physically and mentally, that plan seemed the height of stupidity. Feeling like he was going to vomit, he closed his eyes and clung to the craft, waiting for the beginning of eternity.

　He lost track of time. The chronometer in his spacesuit wasn't working. What felt like hours had passed when he felt a faint thump go through the hull of the craft beneath him. For a moment, he felt a surge of elation. The craft had separated. His search—if it had even existed—was abandoned.
　He inched his way slowly along the hull, looking out at the black spaceship, still parked a few hundred yards away. The sight was depressing. There was no reason for the two ships to be together anymore. The Martian Princess had to turn back toward Earth.
　Then, out of the corner of his eye, he saw something moving. There was a flash of light. Like little moons, they crept up the distant curve of the ship. Suddenly there were more of them. A cluster of shimmering moons.
　Without thinking, Mel pressed the thruster and launched into space.
　His initial fear of jumping out was magnified many times by the presence of searchers: Martian Princess crew, he thought, probably given away by their missing spacesuits.
　In his desperate escape, he found himself faced with boundlessness, darkness, and loneliness. The sun was round and burning hot, but it illuminated nothing. All means by which the mind could distinguish itself from the universe around it were lost. He was like a primitive single cell, floating in space, without origin, purpose, or direction.
　Only a faint memory brought a ray of reason through the dense horror. Alice. He had to survive for Alice. He had to find a way back to Alice, a way back to Earth.
　He looked toward the Martian Princess, toward the searchers clinging to its hull, and screamed in the silent darkness. The searchers had left the hull and were heading toward him through space, moving much faster than he was. There was no point in trying to escape—no point in trying to escape the Martian Princess. His only chance of survival, or even success, lay in getting on board the ship and heading for Earth. He made a wide arc back toward the ship. Soon the searchers were closing in around him, meeting him on a collision course.
　It was then that he realized the true identity of the searchers. Contrary to what he had expected, they were not crew members in spacesuits. Instead, the two objects looked like small spacecraft. Streaks of light pierced the space ahead. He suspected they were also using radar and infrared detection.
　It wasn't from the Martian Princess, he thought to himself. It didn't have a crew. It was some kind of flying robot, from the great black ship.
　He felt the light of the searchlight on his body and waited for the fatal heat ray or death ray to burst forth. But what happened next was unexpected.

　They were approaching quickly. The nearest robot matched Mel's speed until it was within a dozen feet of him. Suddenly, flexible metal tentacles shot out of small openings in the machine and wrapped around his body like snakes. A second robot approached and further restrained him, pinning him down by his arms and legs. He frantically tried to reach the thruster controls inside his suit's gloves, but the tentacles only squeezed him tighter, painfully, threatening to tear the suit's outer shell. He shut off the thrusters and admitted his desperate efforts had failed.
　Soon they were back near the ship, and Mel wondered what accusations the crew of the Martian Princess would hurl at them, what preposterous excuses they would come up with for their behavior.
　But he wasn't being taken to the Martian Princess. He twisted his body from the robot's tentacles' grip and realized he was being taken to a black spaceship. The hatch slid open silently, and the robot immediately carried him into the dark interior of the ship. He felt himself being dropped onto the hard metal floor, and the tentacles unraveled. He pulled himself to his feet and shone the flashlight in his spacesuit on the walls around him. The walls, floor, and ceiling were an indistinguishable dark gray, and there was nothing in the room except him.
　As I scanned the smooth metal surface for any distinctive features, a crisp, alien-sounding voice spoke to me: "Take off your spacesuit and go to the opening in the wall. Do not try to escape or attack. As long as they don't attack you, you'll be safe."
　Seeing no point in resisting, he obeyed. A shining door appeared in the wall in front of him, and he walked through it.
　The inside resembled a clinical laboratory, surrounded by shelves and cabinets stocked with hand instruments and electronic equipment. Three men sat in the room, looking toward the door he had come through. He stared back at the strangers.
　The men in their white surgeon's coats looked normal. They were all middle-aged, with dark hair starting to gray at the ends. One was much more muscular than the other two, one was slightly obese, and the third was extremely thin. And yet Mel felt like a dog ruffling its fur on a moonless night.
　No matter how normal they may have looked, these three were not from Earth. This undeniable fact hit me like a cold weight in the stomach.
　"You guys—" he faltered, unable to find the words.
　"Just lie down on this bench," said the nearest muscular man. "Don't be afraid, we don't mean you any harm. We just want to launch you into space and make sure you're not hurt."
　All three of us were nervous. Mel was sure we were worried about something. It was because I'd run away. I wondered if I'd unwittingly revealed some secret.
　"Come on in," the muscular man said.
　He had no choice. If he struggled, he would only end up breaking the instruments, and there was no hope of overpowering them. He lay down on the bench as instructed. Almost at the same time, the obese man stood behind him. He felt one of his arms grabbed and a needle prick him. The thin man stood at his feet, looking down at him calmly. "When he's asleep, we'll know how to do it," the thin man said.

　The sleep seemed to last for a billion years. When I finally woke, it felt like an incredibly long time had passed. My vision was blurry, but the figure standing before me was unmistakable.
　It's Alice. My Alice - she's safe.
　She sat on the edge of the bed, smiling at him. He struggled to sit up. "Alice!" he cried.
　Then he said, "Where am I? What happened? I seem to remember a lot of weird stuff happening - a trip to Mars and stuff."
　"Don't worry, honey," she said. "I got sick. I had some kind of hysteria or amnesia while I was there. I'm back on Earth now. I'll be out of the hospital soon, and there's nothing to worry about."
　"I've ruined your trip," he muttered. "You were looking forward to it."
　"Not at all. I knew you would get better. I had a lot of fun even by myself. But let's go again. When you're fully recovered, let's save up some money and go again."
　He nodded sleepily. "Of course. I'll go to Mars again and then I'll have a real vacation."
　Alice was gone. Everything was gone.

　In the distance the walls of Dr. Martin's laboratory closed in around him. The light grew steadily brighter. Dr. Martin sat aside, shaking his head slowly from side to side. "I'm so sorry, Mr. Hastings. I thought that now the whole truth would finally come out. But as is so often the case with you, fantasy is layered upon fantasy, and we have to dig through many layers to arrive at the truth. But in your case, it seems we don't have to go very deep to find the hidden truth."
　Mel continued to lie on the couch, staring at the ceiling. "So there weren't any giant black spaceships in space?"
　"Of course! That is one of the dangers of this kind of analysis, Mr. Hastings. You must not mistake your new-found fancy for the truth you seek. I think you will have to come back and continue your examination."
　"Yes, of course." He rose slowly and was helped into the waiting room by the doctor and nurse, who handed him a glass of a sweet white drink.
　"It's an energy booster," laughed Dr. Martin. "It takes away the fatigue that often comes with deep tissue testing. I'll be waiting for you tomorrow."
　Mel nodded and walked out into the hallway.

　There are no giant spaceships.
　There are no strange little robot ships that grab people with tentacles that shoot out like whips.
　There are no strange trio dressed as surgeons.
　And Alice too...
　Suddenly, a thought pierced his mind like a spear. Maybe it had all been an illusion. Maybe she would be waiting for him when he got home. Maybe...
　No. It was real. An accident. Dr. Winters. The vision of the icy room next to the operating room at the hospital. Dr. Martin doesn't know about it. If Mel had tried to tell him about it, he would have said it was a fantasy, too.
　No, they're all real.
　Alice's incredible, bizarre internal organs.
　A huge black ship.
　A relentless robot search party.
　My nightmares stem from these things that happened in space, but somehow they've been wiped from my conscious memory. They don't stem from my childhood, as I thought. Now I know for sure.
　But what exactly happened to Alice? The memories unearthed by Dr. Martin offer no clues. Was her condition the result of an abnormal inheritance or a genetic mutation?
　The confusion in my head was greater than ever, and there was only one way to calm it: to go to Mars as originally planned.
　Let's go again and see if the Black Ship exists.

　The ticket saleswoman was friendly but firm: "Our records show that you recently went on vacation to Mars. Due to the high volume of passengers and the very small capacity of our spacecraft, we limit vacation trips to once every ten years."
　He turned and walked down the hallway, leaving the marble and brass Connemora Space Airlines building.
　They'd walked about six blocks through town, and suddenly Jake Norton came to mind. Jake had been a veteran reporter in the local newsroom when Mel was starting out. Jake had retired just a few months earlier and was living in a part of town with a bunch of other older people. Mel flagged down the nearest cab and headed to Jake's house.
　"Hey Mel, I'm glad you came to see me," Jake said. "I thought old men would just disappear and be forgotten."
　"I'll remember you right away if you need me."
　"Yeah," Jake grinned, "but there's not much you can do for me now. I can't even lend you ten bucks until next payday."
　"Jake, you can do this. You're not planning on traveling to Mars anytime soon, are you?"
　"Mars! Are you okay, Mel?"
　"I've been there once. I must go again, because of Alice. But they won't let me go. I didn't know you could only go once every ten years."
　Jake remembered. Alice had called him and the other reporters the last time she'd returned. Mel was sick, she said. She didn't remember the trip, and she'd been told not to say anything to him about it. Now Mel had regained her memory, and was going again. Jake didn't know what to do.
　"What can I do for you?"
　"I'll give you the money, buy a ticket in your name, and I'll travel as Jake Norton. I think that'll work. They won't check every detail."
　"I don't mind—if it's for your good," Jake said hesitantly. He remembered Alice's anxious voice on the phone that day, asking him not to tell Mel about Mars. As far as Jake knew, no one had.
　He took the money, and Mel waited at the old man's house. An hour later, Jake called. "At the regular rate, the earliest we could get a ticket would be eight months out, but I know a scalper who can get tickets for us for 50 percent more."
　Mel groaned, "Just buy it for me, whatever it costs. I have to go now!" He would be penniless for the next ten years.

　The scene was not much different from the previous time. It was packed with people going on vacation and those seeing them off, and they were still radiating the same vacation excitement. Even the boat was the same.
　The only difference was that Alice wasn't there. He had been holed up in his room and didn't see the takeoff. He felt the slight rocking motion as the ship made its long glide over the water. He could feel the change when it switched to artificial gravity. He lay in bed with his eyes closed as the Martian Princess headed out into the cold, night-like space.
　For two days, I didn't leave my room except for meals. I had no interest in the trip itself. I just waited patiently for the announcement that the black spaceship had arrived.
　But by the end of the second day, there was still no sign. Mel spent a sleepless night gazing off into the endless stars. He realized that Dr. Martin had been right. There was no such thing as a black ship. He had merely substituted one fantasy for another. Where was reality? Did it exist somewhere in this world?
　But even without the Black Ship, his destination was still Mars.
　Three days passed without the Black Ship appearing. But that night, an announcement came over the loudspeaker: "All passengers, please prepare to transfer from the shuttle to the Mars Liner. Please bring your baggage."
　Mel sat paralyzed, listening to the broadcast. It was true after all! He felt a slight vibration on the Martian Princess as the two ships docked. He could see the unknown ship through the porthole in his room. It was black, ugly, and somehow deadly. He wished he could show Dr. Martin this "fantasy."
　I quickly gathered my things and left the room to join the astonished and excited crowd, this time eager to discover the secrets of the great black spaceship rather than hesitate.
　The transition from one ship to the other was barely noticeable; both passageways were identical. But Mel knew it when he passed through the junction. He sensed he had entered a strange world, a world completely different from the ordinary one he knew.
　Further down the hallway, the crowd slowed. Lines formed in front of the flight attendants, tickets being checked. Passengers were sorted out and made their way down branching corridors to their rooms. So far, everything was perfectly normal, much to Mel's dismay. It was just as the announcement said: they were transferring from the shuttle to the Mars liner.
　The attendant glanced at his ticket, then hesitated for a moment before looking at Mel and saying, "Mr. Norton, please come this way."
　There were no passengers in the direction the flight attendant was heading. Another flight attendant came up to him. "It's that way," the second man told Mel. "Follow the flight attendant."

　Mel's heart started beating faster as she followed the flight attendant ahead of her, leaving the line and walking slowly down the hallway. The two of them branched off into seemingly endless, silent corridors. There was no one around.
　They finally stopped in front of a door that was just like the dozens of doors they had passed by before. The attendant opened the door and stood to the side. "Inside," he said. Mel went inside and found no one there. The attendant remained outside the door.
　The room was decorated like an office, with plush carpeting and paneling. A door to the left, leading to another room, opened, and a tall man with a salt-and-pepper haircut appeared. He seemed to walk with an aura of authority and power. Mel recognized that aura.
　"James Connemora!" cried Mel.
　The man bowed slightly in acknowledgment. "That's right, Mr. Hastings," he said.
　Mel was confused. "Why me?"
　James Conemora gazed out the porthole beside Mel at the distant stars. "I've been looking for you for a long time, you know that."
　Something in the man's voice chilled Mel. "You could have easily found me. I'm just a newspaper reporter. Why were you looking for me?"
　Connemora sat down in a deep chair on the other side of the room. "Have you no idea?" he said.
　"Does this have anything to do with what happened before?" Mel stepped back cautiously, her back to the wall facing Conemora. "When we escaped from the Martian Princess instead of boarding the Black Ship?"
　Conemora nodded. "Yes."
　"I still don't get it. Why?"
　"That's the usual story," Conemora shrugged. "I knew too much I shouldn't have known."
　"I have a right to know what happened to my wife. You know her, don't you?"
　Conemora nodded.
　"What happened? Why did everything change after we returned from our trip to Mars?"
　James Conemora was silent for so long that Mel wondered if he hadn't heard him. "Do people come back changed?" Mel asked. "Does something happen to people who go on trips to Mars? Like what happened to Alice?"
　"You know too much," Conemora said to herself, "and that's why I had to find you and bring you here."
　"What do you mean? I got here on my own merits. Your agency tried to stop me from coming."
　"And yet I knew who you were and that you were here. Don't you think I must have had something to do with it?"
　"What?"
　"I made you come here under a false name so that no one would know you were here, except, of course, the old man you borrowed the name from. But no matter what he says, who's going to believe you were on the Martian Princess? Our records show that a Jake Norton is on Earth. No one can prove that Mel Hastings was on board."

　Mel exhaled slowly. Suddenly, fear overtook caution. He took a small step forward, then froze. James Conemora cocked a small pistol in his lap. Mel didn't understand why it was there; it hadn't been there a moment ago.
　"What are you going to do?" Mel asked. "What are you going to do with all of us?"
　"You know too much," Conemora shrugged, feigning bewilderment. "What can I do for you?"
　"What do I know? Explain."
　"Shall I explain to you?" The very thought of it seemed to Conemora to be ridiculous, as if there was something incredibly funny about it. "Very well, I'll explain," he said. "It's been a long time since I've had anyone take an interest in listening to me.
　Humans are not alone in the universe. We have been regularly observed, studied, and studied since the time of the Neanderthals by a galactic species far more advanced than us. These observers sometimes leap with excitement at what we do, and sometimes tremble in horror.
　Now, there is an organization in the galaxy that has been around for at least a million years. This organization was created for the mutual development of the worlds and races of the galaxy, and at the same time to keep the peace. For before this organization was created, there had been many interstellar wars, and more than one great world had been wiped out in pointless conflict.
　"When Earth's humans were ready to venture into space, the Galactic Council had to decide, as they had done on so many other occasions, whether new worlds should be admitted to their ranks. The new worlds could not take part in this decision; they were the ones who were decided upon. Once a world began sending ships into space, it would either become a member of the Council or lose the ability to fly ships. It could even cease to exist."
　"Does this tyrannical council really decide whether a world is fit to exist, and then destroy it if it finds it unsuitable?" Mel said, horrified. "Do they pretend to be the judges of the universe?"
　"The point is this," said Conemora. "No amount of unpleasant names for them can change the fact that they exist, or that their successful activities have been going on for as long as mankind has been alive.
　If we hadn't started sending spaceships, they wouldn't have known about us. But as soon as we sent them out, we entered the territory of a race that was there when we crawled out of our caves. We can't argue with their rights."
　"But to pass judgment on all worlds—"
　"We have no choice but to accept the judgment."
　"And what is their judgment on Earth—?"
　"I'm not mature enough to be a member of the Council, that Earthlings still make too many big blunders, and that I'm not fit to join a species that was already traveling the galaxy at the speed of light while we were learning to use flint."
　"But you didn't exterminate them!"

　James Connemora looked out the window at the stars. "I wonder," he said. "I wonder."
　"What does that mean?" Mel croaked.
　"We have flaws they haven't seen before: we've developed the technology to create tools, but we don't have the ability to use them. For example, we've created a huge communication system, but in reality, that system inhibits communication."
　"That's ridiculous," Mel said. "Do they really think a smoke signal is better than the 3D screen they have at home?"
　"The truth is, and I agree. When we had to rely on smoke signals, we were perfectly sure that we had something to say when we sent messages into the air. But our amazing screens prevent communication by creating an impassable wall of pseudo-communication between us. We are bombarded with sound and light, but the content of communication is virtually zero.
　The same is true of the invention of transportation. We have great means of travelling to every part of the world, and now even into space, but we do not travel; we use machines to prevent us from traveling.
　"I understand the first argument, but I don't agree with that one!" Mel said.
　"Yes, our bodies travel to new places on machines, but our minds remain at home. Wherever we go, we drag our stereotypes, our biased thinking, our cultural concepts with us. We make no attempt to connect with our minds at all to what the machines bring us. We do not travel. We move through space, but we do not travel.
　This is their accusation, and they're right. We haven't changed at all. We use space travel for trivial, silly, stupid things. We turn genius into a toy, like a kid playing with an atomic clock and smashing it against the floor. That's what happened to all our great inventions and discoveries: the gasoline engine, the telephone, the radio. We've built a monstrously stupid culture on the wonders of nature. In the language of one galactic species, they have a phrase they use against people like us: "If there was a God in heaven, he would have cried for 10,000 years."

　"But that's not the real problem. It's just that stupid races rarely venture into space. But we have another characteristic that scares them: destructiveness. They have calculated the trends of our history and predicted our future. If they were to send us into space, it would provoke war and conflict."
　"How could you possibly know that!"
　"They say they understand. We are in no position to protest."
　"And so you are trying to destroy us—"
　"No. They're trying to test an experiment that's only been done a few times before. They're trying to reduce what they call our 'critical mass.'"
　"Critical mass? That's the term they use in relation to nuclear power."
　"Yes, on the verge of explosion. That is the state we are in. In the space of half a century we have had two nuclear wars, not small ones. They think that we will introduce destructiveness into the universe, that we will fight among ourselves in it, and that we will spread our hostility to other species. But if they divide us into small groups, take away our instruments of war, and set us on a different path of development - well, there is a chance that we may be saved."
　"This is crazy! What are they planning? Are they going to split up Earthlings into groups and force-transport them to other worlds - to split them up forever?"
　Mel felt a chill in his chest. He stared at James Connemora, then slowly looked around the walls of the spaceship room, then out towards the stars. The black ship.
　"This ship—! You're transferring the passengers onto this spaceship and forcibly transporting them to other worlds! But they're coming back—"
　"They will be sent to colonies on worlds similar to Earth—although with important differences. These colonies will be small, the largest only a few thousand people. They will have problems that Earth doesn't have—and they will be difficult problems. They won't have the same natural resources. The culture that will emerge will be very different from Earth's. The Galactic Council is very interested in the outcome—although it may be a thousand years or so before we know for sure."
　"But the passengers are coming back," Mel repeated. "You're bringing them back."
　"For every Earthling sent out, a replacement will be sent back. An android provided by the Council."
　"Android!" Mel found herself increasingly unable to think rationally. She found herself yelling. "So Alice—dead Alice was an android, not my wife! My Alice is still alive! Take me to where she—"
　Conemora nodded. "Alice is still alive. She's fine. No harm has been done to her."
　"Take me to her!" he knew he was begging, but his heart was breaking and his pride was no object.
　Conemora seemed to ignore his pleas: "Earth's population is being slowly reduced by removing the upper classes. The androids behave exactly like the people they replace, but are pre-conditioned to not react to the destructiveness inherent in Earthlings."
　A furious rage seemed to well up inside Mel. "You have no right to separate Alice and me. Take me to her!"
　Anger flared up and he lunged forward.
　The small pistol in Conemora's hand fired twice. Mel was shocked at that moment, and felt two shocks on his body. It wasn't supposed to end like this, he thought. To die without being able to see Alice again. At least once--

　He collapsed to the floor. He wasn't in much pain, but he knew he was dying. He looked at his hand, which was pressing against a large wound in his stomach. Something was wrong.
　It was sticky, but there was no red blood. Instead, a sticky green liquid was gushing out, spreading onto his clothes and hands. It was an abnormal green color that didn't seem human.
　I had seen that once before.
　Alice.
　He looked at Conemora with wide eyes in shock.
　"Everything went wrong, android," Conemora said gently. "After we brought your human ancestor onto this ship, we had to imprint the android's memories as usual, except for erasing the memory of your escape from the Martian Princess. That didn't work. The nightmare you had still held onto your memory, and the mind restoration brought it all back.
　Rather than implanting your pre-created memories of the Mars trip as we normally would, we attempted to create an amnesic state that would obscure your memory. This would have worked, had Alice's android not been defective. Normal androids have defense mechanisms to prevent accidents and subsequent discovery. But Alice's android failed, and you set out to expose us. I had to find a way to destroy you—to kill you.
　I am truly sorry. I do not know how androids think or feel. Sometimes I am afraid of you, because you are so similar to humans. But I have seen the factories where you are produced. There is much I do not know, but one thing is certain: if I had not obeyed the Galactic Council, Earth would have been destroyed long ago.
　"Yes, I know something else. Alice and Mel Hastings are happy and content. They live in a wonderful world that looks a lot like the Central Valley."
　He closed his eyes, feeling the life or whatever it was leaking out of him, and wondered if it would end happily ever after.
　He lay squirming on the floor, like a smiling wooden toy soldier that had fallen off a shelf.

end
