Title: Agony Column

Author: Earl Derr Biggers

Chapter 1

Two years ago in July, the heatwaves in London were almost unbearable.
In retrospect, the burning metropolis of those days served as an antechamber leading to a torture chamber.
In other words, they were preparing for the hellish arrival of World War II.
Although insufficient, the preparations were already underway.
At that time, a large number of American tourists gathered at the soda section of the drugstore.
I took a deep breath and enjoyed the same soda and ice cream that I get in my home country.
From the open windows of the Piccadilly coffee shops, English people were enjoying the cool air.
He might have been seen drinking quarts of hot tea.
This is a paradoxical method of overcoming summer that they firmly believe in.
On that memorable day, July 24th, 1914, about nine o'clock in the morning, Jeff
Lee West leaves his apartment in Adelphi Terrace to go to Carl's for breakfast.
He headed to the London Hotel. He found the breakfast room of this magnificent hotel to be the largest in London.
It was so cool, and by some miracle, there were still strawberries to eat, even though it was out of season.
The sweat of a humble Englishman.
As he walked down the crowded Strand, surrounded by faces, he
I longed for my room in Washington Square, New York.
Despite his British name, Jeffrey, West was born
It was as purely American as its home in Kansas, and at the time,
He was only in England for some business.
From his cloud-red homeland to England, far away.
West bought two morning papers at the Carlton Hotel newsstand.
is for study, and the Daily Mail is for entertainment. Then we went into the restaurant.
A tall, sharp-looking Prussian with blonde hair that was brighter than his waist.
Ita saw him and gave a clockwork German smile and a nod.
I went to get a plate of strawberries, which I knew this American would want first.
West sat down at his usual table, opened the Daily Mail, and read his favorite
He looked in the newspaper section and read the first article there, and he smiled with delight.
He laughed a little.

"He who calls me his beloved is dishonest. He doesn't even write to me."

Anyone with even a passing knowledge of British newspapers will be interested in what West is writing about.
During my three weeks in London,
He followed the personal ads in the Daily Mail with a throbbing heart.
This series of personal messages is commonly known as the "Agony Column."
Sherlock Holmes is well known and has long been a fixture of British newspapers.
During the time of Holmes's success, this became extremely popular in The Times, and many criminals
But he was caught with a strange message that seemed to provoke his curiosity.
Later, the Telegraph ran this column, but the advent of popular newspapers that could be bought for half a penny
At the same time, ordinary people flocked to the Daily Mail.
The Agony column is a mix of tragedy and comedy.
The exhortation to go home was given to the unwanted suitor: "Father has prepared a warrant. Run away,
"Thou shalt not be slain!" he warned. Abelard and Heloise blushed at the intensity of his warning.
Such love is openly displayed for ten cents a word, bringing smiles to the faces of everyone in town.
A gentleman wearing brown derby shoes invited me to join him.
- I say this with passion to the blonde tutor who got off the train in the bush,
I'm captivated by you. Would you mind giving me a chance to talk?
For three weeks, West was obsessed with reading this kind of thing.
The best thing about these messages was that they were all very open.
At worst, it was simply a matter of evading social convention.
It was just a vain attempt, but this kind of openness is something that the British
is a trend that is too rare to be seen and should be encouraged more and more.
He felt that maybe it was. Plus, West had a thing for mystery and romance.
And these charming twins were always hanging around the posts.
So while he was waiting for the strawberries, he called her "my dear."
The ungrammatical outrage of a young woman who has come to doubt the sincerity of the man who gave her
He was smiling. He turned to the second article of the morning.
From the completely conquered.

"My love is asleep. A lady with lush, raven-black hair. Boarding at Victoria Station.
I drove to a corner seat. Wednesday night. I had the program book in my hand. The gentleman who answered my question was very friendly.
I hope so. Please leave your reply here. ...King of France"

West thought the reply from the lush, jet-black haired man was something to be wary of. The next message was,
It was Ai's lyric poems that have now become the highlight of this column almost every day.

"My dearest love, I send you a tender prayer of love. My only wish is,
Only being with you now and forever. In my eyes, there is no one like you.
There is no one attractive. Your name is music. You are more important than life. My beauty
My dear, my pride, my joy, my everything! Everyone I see is a rival.
Kiss your pretty hands as if they were mine. I love only you.
Forever yours....Ai"

Ai was generous, West thought. Even though it was only ten cents a word.
In stark contrast to the miserly mistress's message earlier in
there was.

"I love you with all my heart. I miss you. I'm sad. I miss you."

But this deeply personal message isn't just about love.
There was some mystery to this, especially in the words of the aquatic animals:

"Bold mermaid, you are not mine. The crocodile will bite you.
...the first fish."

And some bloody warning.

"Du Box. I'll knock your teeth out in the first round. The end. An unforgettable
It will be a great experience. 

At this time, West's strawberries arrived. As expected, the agony column also attracted his interest.
He finished eating the red strawberries and began to read again.
Ta.

"Waterloo. Wednesday train at 11:53. I was in a taxi when I left.
"Lady who rejected me, are you interested in the man in the grey coat? ...A serious man."

Further on, there were more refined offers.

"Great Central. Monday morning the 9th, at the Great Central Hotel.
The lady in the hoodie in the elevator was eager to get an introduction.
I will."

That was the end of the Agony column fun for the day. West was serious.
Like a proper citizen, I picked up the Times and read the morning news.
Much was written about the appointment of a new president of The College.
The divorce scandal involving El Rey also drew attention.
In a corner of an unimportant page, there was an article about Austria, which seemed to be of no importance.
The article said that the US had issued an ultimatum to Serbia.
I was halfway through reading this boring news, when suddenly a major news paper
The article has become an insignificant ink blot.
A woman stood in the entrance to the breakfast room of the Carlton Hotel.
Yes, he should have pondered the special dispatch from Vienna.
But what a fine woman she was! Her hair was dull gold, her eyes violet,
It's no explanation, however. There are plenty of women who have received the same blessing.
That was her demeanor. Her violet eyes were shining brightly among the many head bellboys.
And here at Carlton, destiny is
No matter where else I lead, I have the same relaxed atmosphere.
She was not from this country, but from the United States.
She walked briskly into the restaurant, and as part of her background
Then, a middle-aged gentleman wearing the kind of black suit often worn by politicians came into view.
She was undeniably labeled an American.
He approached Est, and I noticed he was holding the Daily Mail in his hand.
The waiter at the waist is waiting for the chair he has pulled out.
Other than that, there is no table in the room worth sitting at.
He had a genius for showing off his skills.
He lured me to a seat not more than five feet away, and quickly took my order.
He took out the pencil and stood there biting it like a journalist in an American play.
I got it.
"The strawberries are delicious," he said amiably.
The man looked at the woman with eyes that said, "What will you do?"
"I'm fine, Dad," she said. "I hate strawberries. I hate grapefruit."
Give me some food."
West called out to the waiter as he hurried past.
He said in a challenging tone.
"Give me another plate of strawberries. They taste better today than ever."
For a moment, as if looking at a landscape, those violet eyes flashed across his eyes.
Then the owner of those eyes slowly took hold of the
I opened the Daily Mail.
"What's in the news?" he asked, taking a sip of water from his glass.
the house asked.
"I don't know," the woman replied without looking up. "I want something more interesting than the news."
I found this. Did you know? British newspapers have these weird columns.
It's called the "Comment Column." The messages are amazing." She leaned forward on the table.
"Listen to this. My dearest love, I send you a tender prayer of love.
My only wish is to be with you now and forever.
There is no one more attractive than you."
The man looked around nervously. "Stop it," he pleaded.
"How embarrassing."
"How ugly!" cried the woman. "Oh, I'm very
I think it's wonderful. It's so open and confident.
is music. You are more important than life itself..."
"What are we going to see today?" his father quickly interjected.
"Go to the City and see the Temple Law School, where Thackeray lived.
And Oliver Goldsmith..."
"Okay, okay, Temple Law School."
"Then there's the Tower of London. It's full of very romantic images.
Especially the Tower of Blood where the poor princes were killed. Isn't that exciting?"
"If you say so."
"Dad! Even back in Texas, I'm not interested in things like Dad being the king or anything like that.
I won't say you gave me a taste, I promise. If you show a little interest now.
Otherwise, there will be terrible rumors that King George V took off his hat as he passed by.
I'll get mad."
The politician laughed, and West, who had nothing to do with the matter, couldn't help but smile along.
The waiter returned with grapefruit and West's strawberries.
The woman didn't even glance at West, put down the newspaper and went to eat her breakfast.
But West mustered up all his courage and glanced at her.
With a feeling of patriotic pride, he thought, "I've been in Europe for six years.
Months have passed, and the most beautiful thing I have seen there is someone from my homeland!"
Twenty minutes later, when he reluctantly got up, his two compatriots were still at the table.
As is usual in such cases, the woman makes the arrangements,
The man agreed.
With one last glance her way, West was on the heated sidewalk of Haymarket Street.
I got out onto the road.
He walked slowly back to his room. Work was waiting for him. But
Instead of getting to work, he sat on the balcony of his study and chose the apartment.
I gazed at the courtyard, the main reason for my visit.
The countryside was transported to a place where the trees were neatly trimmed and well-maintained.
The countryside. It is what gives him the most satisfaction in England.
The trees climb high up the walls, and paths run between flowerbeds in full bloom.
Opposite the window is a very romantic gate that is rarely opened.
When I sit and look down, I can see the woman from the Carlton Hotel right below me.
She sat on a log bench, and I felt jealous of her beauty.
One moment I bend over the flowers, the next I open the door to the scorching hot, busy city.
He was standing at the gate that opened.
Watching her in that garden she will never enter, I will never see her again.
Just when I was feeling miserable that this would never happen, the thought occurred to me.
At first I thought it was a stupid, ridiculous idea and shook my head.
To use a word that is too overused, she is a "lady" and he is a
At the very least, they are "gentlemen" in appearance.
If I give in to such temptation, she will be surprised, angry, and somewhere,
Even if we meet again someday, I will not take advantage of this once in a lifetime opportunity.
It would be impossible.
But she also finds the Agony column amusing and "very lovely."
She has a sparkle in her eyes that shows she loves romance.
She was human, fun-loving, and above all, had the joy of youth in her heart.
There are.
This is ridiculous! West went into the room and paced around.
That's insane. But still... he thought with a grin... this
The idea is full of delightful possibilities. Don't throw it away forever.
It's not fair that I have to take up this stupid job.
Or! Throw it away forever? Hmm...
The next morning, Saturday, West skipped breakfast at the Carlton Hotel.
However, the woman in question came to eat there. When she and her father sat down, her father said,
The usual Daily Mail, that's what I have," he said.
"Of course!" she replied. "I couldn't live without it.
Grapefruit please."
She began to read, and soon her cheeks turned red and she put the paper down.
"What's going on?" asked the Texas politician.
"Today," she replied sternly, "I'm going to the British Museum. I'm going to postpone it."
I've had enough of that."
The father sighed. Thankfully, he asked for the Daily Mail.
If he had done so, it would have been about a quarter of the way up the personal information column.
He would have been furious at that point, or perhaps just confused.
Maybe.

"The restaurant at the Carlton Hotel. Friday morning, nine o'clock. Excuse me, strawberries.
From a man who ate two plates of fruit to a young lady who prefers grapefruit to strawberries.
Maybe we have a mutual friend? I can't sleep at night until I find out.
I would love to meet you and have a fun chat while reading this post."

The strawberry-loving man was scared and wasn't at the Carlton that morning.
Fortunately! He looked at the beautiful face of the woman gazing at the grapefruit with a stern and determined expression.
He must have been disappointed to see the expression of disappointment on his face.
She may have left the restaurant. Soon, a mischievous look appeared on the woman's face.
A smile appeared on her face, and she picked up the paper again, and the smile appeared.
I probably wouldn't have seen him read the comments to the end.

Chapter 2

The next day was Sunday, and the Daily Mail was closed.
On Monday, Jeffrey West woke up incredibly early.
He woke up, went out into the street and looked for his favorite newspaper. He found it in the agony column.
...That's all I saw. On Tuesday, I woke up early again without giving up hope.
Hope was dashed: the woman at the Carlton Hotel was not happy to respond.
It was a failure, he thought. He had risked everything and taken a big gamble, but it had paid off.
If she thought of him at all, she thought of him as a petty fool.
He was enough to dismiss her as a tabloid shill.
It was worthy of contempt.
I slept late on Wednesday. I wasn't in a hurry to check out the Daily Mail.
The disappointment of the previous day was too great.
I called Walters, the apartment manager, and asked him to bring me the morning paper.
Walters returned with a precious treasure, for the agony of the day
West read the column with joy, with white soap on his face.
is.

"To Strawberry Man, I decided to reply because the grapefruit woman
She has a kind heart and loves mystery and romance.
I'll allow you to write me one letter every day for the next 10 days.
Prove yourself worthy of being my friend. The rest is history...
After seeing the child. To the Carlton Hotel, c/o Sadie Haight, M.A.L.
.to"

West's feet had been on the ground all day, but as darkness fell, the question of the letter began to grow.
The subject began to haunt him, as if his entire future happiness depended on it.
He felt that when he returned from dinner he sat at his desk by the window overlooking the beautiful courtyard.
The day was still scorching hot, but at night a gentle breeze came over London.
The wind blew gently, fanning my hot cheeks.
The paper on top rustled.
He thought long and hard. He immediately realized that he was a man of high rank and dignity,
Should I reveal that I am close enough to so many famous people?
No way! If you do that, the bubbles will burst and you'll be instantly filled with mystery and lore.
The manse disappears forever. The grapefruit woman loses all interest.
I will never listen to him again. He was sternly watching the rustling curtains.
He spoke in a solemn tone.
"No. I desperately need mystery and romance. But where...where
Something like that? 
I could hear the hard thumping of military boots from upstairs.
Stephen Fraser-Free of the 12th Cavalry of the British Indian Army
Captain A was returning home on leave from a colony across the sea.
The room would soon be filled with romance and mystery.
It was something that never occurred to Jeffrey West at the time.
Suddenly, inspiration struck him, and he wrote seven letters to the lady at the Carlton Hotel.
I wrote the first of my letters, which I posted at midnight and which read as follows:
That was it.

Dear Grapefruit Lady,
You are a very kind person. You are also wise. I say wise because
Read everything that was written in my awkward little personal ad.
You will immediately understand what that means.
That is, a shy man would pass by timidly and hesitantly.
Please believe me, you are about to get a grip on the hem of an over-the-top romance.
When I wrote that message, the old man called conservatism was haunting me.
He resisted violently. He struggled, screamed, and protested.
He chased me to the mailbox, but I whipped him.
And I was like, "See?" I beat him.
I told him that you only have one youth, and that you can't get past that and fall in love.
What's the point of sending a diagram? At least this woman will understand, I
He laughed at that, shook his foolish grey head,
I admit that he made me feel uneasy. But now, thanks to you,
This has confirmed my belief in you. Thank you.
I offer you the leaves a million times.
For three weeks, yearning for America, I was in this huge,
For three weeks, the Agony column was my only source of entertainment.
It was like that. Then you walked through the door of the Carlton Hotel restaurant.
appeared.
I have to write about myself. I know. So, my heart
I won't tell you about the things in it... about the photos I have of you...
That's because it probably doesn't mean anything to you.
I'm sure a number of Texas dandies have told you the same thing, Moon.
On an evening when the light shines overhead, and the breeze whispers softly, I look at the branches of that tree...
...That tree...um, what's the name of that tree...
Oh, that's not funny. I don't know! I've never been to Texas.
I don't have any. This is a bad habit of mine that I need to fix immediately.
I was going to look up Texas in the encyclopedia.
I was in the clouds, and there are no dictionaries in the clouds.
Now I am back on the ground in my quiet study, with a pen and ink bottle in front of me.
I have a letter and a piece of paper. I believe I am a worthy person to date.
You have to prove it.
They say that you can tell a lot about the person who lives in a room by looking at it.
But, alas, in Adelphi Terrace... I won't say what number.
However, this cozy room is fully furnished and available for subletting.
If you look where I am right now, you'll see a man named Anthony Bartholomew.
You will judge me by the possessions I left behind.
There's a lot of dust on it. Anthony and I shouldn't judge it based on that.
Please come in. I'd rather have the caretaker Uo who lives in the basement with his gray-haired wife.
We should judge Luthers. Walters was once a gardener. And
The courtyard overlooked by my balcony was filled with the contents of his life.
While he was spending time there, dust had accumulated in the corners above.
That's it.
Are you disappointed with this? Then you should see the courtyard.
Then you won't blame Walters. This courtyard is
It's a specimen of heaven that remains close to us. As British as a hedge.
It's stylish, neat and beautiful. London is somewhere beyond the hustle and bustle.
Between our courtyard and the great city lies a magic gate that remains forever closed.
The reason I decided to rent this room was because of the courtyard.
Since you like mysteries, I'll tell you about the strange series of circumstances that led me here.
Let's talk about...
To start from the beginning, I must first go back to Interlaken.
Have you ever been there? That Jungfrau
A quiet little village nestled between two sparkling lakes and backed by high peaks.
It is a small town. At dinner time, the dining room of one lucky hotel served snow-capped yukata.
You can see a grayish purple afterglow shining on the Ningfrau.
You probably wouldn't say you hate strawberries.
You will be at a loss for words.
A month ago, I was in Interlaken. One evening, after dinner, I walked down the main street.
I was strolling around the area. Every single hotel and shop was lined up on the street.
I was standing at attention in front of a magnificent mountain.
I found a bunch of them stored away. I needed one for mountain climbing, so
I stopped to take a look at one. But as soon as I started to look at the items,
A young Englishman came into the shop and also began to examine the walking sticks.
vinegar.
I chose one from the many and turned around to look for the owner.
A young Englishman approached me. He was slim and elegant despite being very young.
It looked like he was polishing his body until it was shiny in the bath.
I think it's the British who are so bold in their colonies like Egypt and India.
I believe that this is a major factor that makes this possible.
I don't take a proper bath that often.
 Well, excuse me, my dear,  he said,  you d better put away that wand.
Don't be offended. That's not a reliable way to climb a mountain. I wouldn't recommend it.
and others  "
I'm not surprised. If you know any British people,
They have no habit of talking to others even in urgent situations.
You know that. However, there is one person in that arrogant race.
Only someone took issue with my choice of walking stick.
I ended up buying the walking stick he had chosen, and he headed in the direction of my hotel.
We started walking together. During that time, he talked in a very British way.
It's not bad.
We stopped at an amusement park, listened to music, had a drink, and rode on a pony.
I threw him a few francs. He followed me to the hotel hallway.
When he left, I was surprised to see him treat me like an old acquaintance.
He said he would come and visit me the next morning.
Archibald Enright was the name he told me.
He must be a fallen speculator, desperately trying to raise money.
They had to, and so they decided to abandon their British exclusive attitude.
I decided to do it. And the next day, I prepared myself for someone to ask me for money.
There was.
But my guess was wrong. Enright seemed to have plenty of money.
On the first night, I mentioned that I was planning to go to London soon.
He often spoke of it on the way.
As we approached, he hinted at me meeting a friend of his in England.
This is also something I have never heard of before, and it is unprecedented.
He was with his cousin, the 12th Hussar of the British Indian Army, when I bade him farewell.
He handed me a letter of introduction to Captain Stephen Fraser-Freer.
The Captain will be happy to assist you during your stay in London.
They're probably on vacation, or at least they'll be on vacation by the time you get there.
That's what I mean.
"Stephen is a good guy," Enright said. "He's happy to help out.
He'll tell me all about it. Please say hello to him."
Of course I received the letter, but the whole thing was very troubling to me.
Why on earth had Archie suddenly felt such a strong affinity with me?
My cousin returned to Japan after two years in India and was extremely busy.
Why are you trying to get me to meet you when you know you have a boyfriend? Archie has been persistently trying to persuade me.
I promised to show my letter of introduction, but despite that, I
I had met many British gentlemen up until then, but
With the exception of Chi, they were Americans who traveled around with only a letter of introduction.
I felt that they were not the kind of people who would warmly welcome a Rika person.
I continued my journey slowly until I reached London, where I was about to board the ship back home.
I met a friend who was on his way to his country. When he brought a letter of introduction,
He shared some sad experiences of his experiences.
Don't make me trouble with something like that." A cold, suspicious look.
He said that despite being such a caring person, he disliked outsiders.
It's a British habit that never changes. Of course, Archie is not above this.
I don't have one.
So I decided to forget about the letter of introduction to Captain Fraser-Freer.
I have business acquaintances and a few British friends here in London.
They were the same kind and charming people as always.
It is also beneficial for me to meet people. So I move around a lot for about a week.
One afternoon, I decided to go and see the captain.
I told myself, "Maybe I'll just be in a giant oven in India."
I think it has become softer. It's not a big deal if it doesn't work out.
And so.
That was my first time staying at this apartment in Adelphi Terrace.
This was the address that Arthur gave me. Walters let me in.
I heard from him that Captain Fraser-Freer had not yet returned from India.
I was told that the room was ready. It seems to be a custom here.
However, the Captain had kept the room while he was away.
He was supposed to come here. Perhaps my wife remembers the date.
said Walters. He left me in the hall on the first floor and went to his wife's
I went to ask about it.
While I was waiting, I wandered into the back of the hall.
Through the open window, which had been opened to invite the guests into the room, I saw for the first time the courtyard, the London
I saw that courtyard that I love so much. It was an old brick building with ivy growing in it.
Walls, pretty paths around flowerbeds with their scented blossoms, wooden chairs, and a magic gate.
Outside lies the greatest city in the world, with its poverty and wealth, its sorrow and joy, its noise and bustle.
I couldn't believe it. This is Jane O.
This is the garden where Szczynski housed his ladies and refined gentlemen. This is the place to dream, worship,
It is a garden to be cherished.
Walters has returned, and his wife is not sure when the captain will return.
When I said that, I praised the courtyard very highly. Soon we became friends.
I was looking for a quiet place away from the hotel, so I chose a room on the second floor.
When I found out that there was a suite available for subletting directly below Captain Udo's room,
I was overjoyed.
He got the address of the real estate agent from Walters and proposed marriage to the company president's daughter.
However, after undergoing the most stringent screening I could imagine, I decided to live here.
I was given permission to plant it. The garden was now mine!
Captain? Three days after I arrived here, I heard the sound of military boots from upstairs for the first time.
Then my courage began to wane again. I left Archie's letter of introduction on the table.
I waited, and with my neighbor I only listened to his footsteps above me.
Maybe it was rude of me to move into the same apartment as him.
However, Walters knew that he was an acquaintance of the captain.
He immediately told me that his friend had returned home safely.
I came to.
So one night a week ago, I mustered up the courage to go to the captain's room.
I knocked, was asked to come in, and found myself face to face with him in his study.
He was a handsome man with long hair and a mustache.
He was the kind of person you would dream of. Unfortunately, his attitude was not very friendly.
But there wasn't.
"Captain," I began, "I'm sorry for intruding on you.
Of course, that's not what I meant to say, but I tried to calm myself down.
"But I happen to be your neighbor, and here
I also have a letter of introduction from your cousin, Mr. Archibald Enright.
We met in Interlaken and became very good friends."
"Oh, is that true?" said the captain.
He reached for his letter of introduction as if accepting evidence for a court martial.
I handed it over, wishing I had never come. He read the letter to the end.
I read it. It was a long letter for a letter of introduction. I stood by his desk and waited.
While I was there because he didn't tell me to sit down I
I looked around the room. It wasn't much different from my study, except it was a little smaller than my room.
I also found it a little dusty and it's on the third floor so it's further away from the garden.
That's why Walters rarely comes that far.
The captain turned to me and resumed reading the letter.
It confused me. I looked down and by chance, I saw an ink painting on his desk.
I found a strange knife that seemed to have been brought back from the US.
The sharp blade was made of steel and the handle was gold, engraved with some pagan design.
At that moment the captain looked up from Archie's letter and cast a cold gaze directly at me.
I poured it into it.
"My dear," said the captain, "to the best of my knowledge, Archibald Enwright,
I don't have any cousins like that."
Oh, what a wonderful outcome that brings tears to my eyes!
It was quite unfortunate that he brought a letter of introduction from the Englishman.
In his room, he read a warm letter of recommendation from a non-existent cousin.
He had the nerve to show it off in front of me!
"I'm sorry about that," I said, sounding just as arrogant as he was.
I was going to do it, but it was ten years too early.
I didn't bring the letter to you."
"Of course you do," replied the captain.
"It seems some trickster has some kind of plan and sent it to me.
"Well," I continued, "I have no idea what he was up to."
"I'm so sorry," he said.
He said it with a certain intonation, which clearly implied,
"I don't think so at all."
A painful silence. I thought the captain should return the letter, but he didn't seem to mind.
And of course, I didn't ask for it back.
"Um, excuse me then," I said, and hurried off.
"Goodnight," he replied, and I picked up Archie's damn letter.
He left the captain standing there, stunned.
That is why I came to Adelphi Terrace.
You will admit that there is some mystery in this. After that awkward visit,
I passed the captain on the stairs once or twice, but the corridors were very dark.
I often hear him making noises from above.
You can hear it even while you're doing it.
Who was Archie and what was he up to?
Anyway, I got a garden, thanks to Chatty Archie.
It is almost midnight now. The noise of London is gradually dying down.
It became a murmur of discontent. And from the far reaches of this burning city
Then a gentle breeze blew, its whispering echoing across the green grass and the creeping ivy on the wall.
"I heard it through the soft, dim folds of the curtains.
Is he whispering?
Perhaps the dream I am sending you with this first letter.
It's a dream I don't have the courage to whisper yet.
Well, good night.
Strawberry Man

Chapter 3

The Texas politician's daughter, with an inquisitive smile, greeted Carl on Thursday morning.
She read the letter in her room at the Ton Hotel. The letter from the strawberry enthusiast captured her heart.
It was clear that he had been dragged by force all day.
As she toured the museum, she eagerly and excitedly looked forward to the next morning.
I realized that I was doing this.
But the next morning, Sadie Hate, the maid who was handling this strange correspondence,
The girl from Texas was a little disappointed.
She insisted on going back to the hotel for lunch.
They were quite a distance from the Carlton Hotel at the time.
Her great journey was rewarded. A second letter was waiting for her. She took a deep breath as she read it.
I drank it.

Dear Miss of the Carlton Hotel,
I am writing this letter at three in the morning. London beyond the garden is like a graveyard.
It's so quiet. I'm working on a letter this late because I've been busy all day yesterday.
Even if I wasn't thinking about it, I sat down at my desk at seven o'clock last night and started writing letters.
It's not that I didn't try to write it. Believe me, I didn't want to be sabotaged.
If so, it would be some incredibly surprising and horrifying event.
It's like this.
And then that most astonishing and horrifying thing happened.
I want to hit you with this news in one powerful and frightening sentence.
If you want to, you can write it. But let's save that for later.
A tragedy shrouded in mystery as deep as the mist of London has been revealed to this quiet area of Adelphi Terrace.
The Walters family was in the basement.
He sits there, devastated, sleepless, and silent.
From time to time, the footsteps of men on an ominous mission can be heard from the steps...
No, I guess I have to start from the very beginning.
Last night I had an early dinner at Simpsons on the Strand.
It was quite early, so there were hardly any other customers besides me.
My mind was full of the letter, so I quickly finished my meal and went back to my room.
As I was standing on the street in front of my apartment, searching my pockets for my keys,
I clearly remember the big clock in the Capitol striking seven.
rang down the peaceful avenue like a loud, friendly greeting.
When I got to my study, I immediately sat down at my desk and began to write a letter.
Above me I could hear Captain Fraser-Freer moving about.
They were probably getting ready to go out.
How embarrassing it would be to know that someone had dinner at the ridiculous time of six o'clock.
I was grinning and wondering if I would get a check, when suddenly,
Suddenly, from the room above came the rough, determined voice of someone who seemed to be a guest.
The Captain's subsequent response was calmer and more resolute.
This continued for a while and became more and more excited.
I couldn't hear a word being said, but I knew there was an argument going on.
I felt anxious about whether I would be able to write a letter to you.
I felt uncomfortable being interrupted in this way in my most important work.
I remember that.
After about five minutes of discussion, a loud thud came from above, as if arguing.
When I was in college, I heard a heavy sound.
I remember hearing the sounds of people fighting at the time.
However, this one was more terrifying and tense, and it made me feel uneasy.
I decided to reconsider and focus on the letter, since it had nothing to do with me.
That's what I did.
The conflict was so heavy it shook this old apartment building to its foundations.
It ended with a sound like this. I sat there feeling very depressed for some reason.
I listened intently. I heard nothing. Outside, the twilight was long.
It wasn't completely dark. I stepped out into the hallway and saw the frugal Walter.
The lights hadn't been turned on yet. Someone was tiptoeing down the stairs.
But I could tell by the creaking sound. I could hear a spurt of water leaking through the gap in the door behind me.
I waited for him to pass through the light. Then, fate came to me like a gentle breeze.
The door slammed shut, and the big man was standing beside me in the darkness.
I ran down the stairs as fast as I could. I realized he was a big man when I saw the passage
It was narrow and he had to push me aside when he passed me.
I heard him mutter curses under his breath.
I quickly looked out the window at the end of the corridor that faced the street.
The front door wouldn't open. No one came out. I was confused for a moment.
However, I immediately returned to my room and jumped out onto the balcony.
I saw him running through the backyard... the garden I've spoken of so many times.
Without even bothering to open the gate, he climbed over it and disappeared into the alley.
I pondered for a moment. Something strange had definitely happened.
But what would it mean for me to step in here?
I will never forget the cold look that Captain Fraser-Freer gave me when he
In his gloomy study, he stood motionless, with a statuesque smile on his face.
I could picture myself there. Even if I walked in now, I would be warmly welcomed.
Will it be possible?
In the end, I didn't care what people thought, so I went downstairs to look for Walters.
I decided to go. He was having dinner with his wife in the basement. I was wondering what
He told me how the captain had never let anyone in to see him.
He tried to respond to my concerns with a typical British coolness.
I persuaded him to accompany me to the captain's room.
The captain's door was open. In England, trespassers were severely punished.
I remembered that I had to go first, so I let Walters go first.
He stepped into a room where the gas flame flickered weakly.
"It's a disaster, sir!" Walters said, still using the servant's words.
I never forget how to use it.
Now, it is time to finally write that sentence.
Captain Hare had an almost mocking smile on his handsome English face.
They were all dead on the floor!
Now, I am quietly watching the dawn in my room, which is just like the one where the captain died.
I am currently facing a new challenge, but the fear I felt at that time is still very strong in my mind.
He had been stabbed above the heart. The first thing that came to my mind was the
It was the strange Indian knife I had seen. I quickly turned around to look for it.
But the knife was gone. And when I looked at the desk, I saw that it was in a dusty room.
I realized there must be fingerprints, lots of fingerprints, inside.
The room was still in order, despite the sounds of the struggle.
Something strange caught my eye. On the desk was a letter sent from a florist on Bond Street.
There was a box that had been delivered. The lid was open and inside was a white Chinese daisy.
Next to the box, there was a scarab made of emerald.
There was also a bug-shaped tie pin. Not far from the captain's body,
In some places, the Homburg hat is named after the German city where it is made.
was rolling around.
I remembered that it is important not to disturb the scene in such a situation,
I turned to Luther. His face was pale as I was writing.
It was like paper. My knees were shaking.
"Walters, hold on here until the police come. Scott
I'll contact Toland Yard, so follow me."
"All right, sir," said Walters.
We went to the telephone in the hallway on the first floor, and I called Scotland Yard.
I was told that the inspector would be sent over immediately, so I returned to my room to wait.
I did.
You can imagine how I felt while waiting.
There's probably no danger until then, but you'll get into some pretty nasty trouble.
I had expected the worst. Walters had told me at first that he was an acquaintance of the captain.
I think he remembers coming here. My feeling is that he was the captain.
When he came back from India, he must have realized that we were not close.
He didn't want me to be lodging with Fraser-Freer.
He will surely testify that he strongly desired it. Furthermore, the matter of the letter of introduction from Archie
Yes, I was convinced that it had to be kept a secret.
Finally, I would like to corroborate my story by mentioning the quarrel that preceded the Captain's death and the man who escaped through the garden.
There is no one to help me.
This is bad news, I thought. No matter how stupid the police officer was, he couldn't have taken me.
No one would be immune to suspicion!
About twenty minutes later, three men arrived from Scotland Yard.
I was getting restless and nervous.
I heard them let in. They walked up the stairs and around the rooms above.
Soon Walters was knocking on my door and Inspector Bray wanted to speak to me.
As I led him up the stairs, I said to Walters,
I felt that the accused murderer was facing a witness whose testimony alone could get him the death penalty.
It was a feeling that I was sure I would have.
Bray was a big, active man. His hair, like most Englishmen, was
Blonde. Every movement of his showed his skill. I was caught in the crossfire.
He pretended to be casual like a normal guy... but failed miserably.
I fear... I heard two men's voices, a struggle, and a large man in the hallway.
I told him how he had passed me by and then climbed over the gate.
I listened without saying a word, but at the very end,
"Are you acquainted with the captain?"
"I don't know you well enough," I said.
This thought kept coming to my mind and scared me.
It was a friend of his. His name was Archibald Enright.
However."
"I wonder if Enwright will be in London and act as your witness?"
"I'm afraid I can't. I last heard from him in Interlaken.
from"
"I see. How did you end up renting this apartment?"
"When I first visited the Captain, he had not yet returned from India.
I was looking for a place to stay at the time, and I really liked the garden here.
vinegar"
When you put it like that, it sounds like a lame excuse.
I wasn't surprised when he looked at me with such a look in his eyes.
Too much.
Bray ignored me and started walking around the room.
"White Chinese daisies, scarab beetle tie clips, Homburg hats," he said.
He stopped in front of a desk lined with exhibits and listed them one by one.
A constable came forward with a newspaper.
"What's that?" asked Bray.
"The Daily Mail, Inspector," said the constable. "July 27th, 28th, 29th,
And for thirty days. 
Bray picked up the newspapers, looked at them, then threw them disdainfully into the wastebasket.
Then he turned back to Walters.
"Have you contacted the Captain's family?"
"I'm sorry, sir," said Walters. "I'm confused.
That's why. This is the first time I've ever experienced something like this. I immediately ran off..."
"Oh, no," Bray replied sharply. "Don't worry about it.
I'll do it."
There was a knock at the door. Bray called out, "Come in!"
A slim young man with a military look and bearing came in.
"Hello, Walters!" he said with a smile. "What's up?"
Did you? I..."
He stopped suddenly when he saw the sofa on which Fraser-Freer lay.
The next moment he was beside the dead man.
"Hey, Stephen!" he cried out in pain.
"Who are you?" the inspector demanded, in a manner that struck me as rather rude.
I thought so.
"The captain's brother," interjected Walters. "He is from the British Few.
Lieutenant Norman Fraser-Freer of the Gillian Regiment."
Silence fell.
"This is a terrible thing, sir," said Walters.
I started talking to him in the year.
I have never seen a man more broken than the young Fraser-Freer.
No. Looking at him, I can see that there must have been a beautiful brotherly love between him and the man on the couch.
At last he looked away from his brother. Walters
I tried to explain what had happened.
"Excuse me, gentlemen," said the lieutenant, "I have been very shocked.
Of course, I never dreamed of this happening... I stopped by to have a quick chat with my brother...
But now..."
We didn't say anything. Like a true British man, he took it in public.
I left him to apologise for causing the disturbance.
"I'm sorry," said Bray, his eyes still wandering about the room.
"Especially in England," the inspector said immediately, "there will soon be a man like the Captain.
By the way, everyone, I'd like to tell you something.
I am the Chief of the Public Security Section at Scotland Yard, and I have something to say to you.
This is not an ordinary murder. There are reasons I cannot tell you now... I should add that
In the interest of the Empire...the Captain's tragic death should be hidden from the press for the time being.
Of course, the circumstances of the death must be kept secret.
Just put out a death notice, okay? Let it look like a natural death.
Sea urchin"
"I understand," said the lieutenant. He knew more than he let on.
This is what we are doing.
"Thank you," said Inspector Bray. "I'll leave it to you to contact the family.
Please take the body as well. As for the other people, please do not leak this information to the outside.
That is strictly forbidden."
Inspector Bray stood looking at me with a surprised look on his face.
"Are you American?" he asked. I knew he didn't like Americans.
I thought that was the case.
"that's right"
"Do you know anyone at the consulate?"
Thank goodness there is! There is an assistant secretary there named Watson. He is a university professor.
I mentioned him to Bray.
"Very well," said the inspector. "You may go, but I must tell you that I am the principal
Please understand that I am a witness. If I try to leave London, I will be sentenced.
He's being held captive in the prison."
So I returned to my room, deeply entangled in a mystery I didn't like.
I have been sitting in my study for some time now, pondering the mystery over and over again.
There were many footsteps on the stairs and many voices coming from the entrance.
I'm coming.
While I was waiting here for dawn, I felt very sorry for the cold, handsome captain.
I began to think that he was a human being after all. I would never hear it again.
The sound of his footsteps told me that.
What is the meaning of this incident? The man in the hallway, the man arguing loudly,
Who was that man who had struck the decisive blow with the strange Indian knife?
And what does the white Chinese daisy mean?
Where's the tie pin? And that weird Homburg hat?
Miss Carlton, you wanted a mystery.
When I sent this letter, I was so quick to give you so many strange and mysterious mysteries.
I never dreamed I would be able to get it.
And... please believe me... this incident is happening
Your face has been floating before my eyes all this time... that glorious morning
Your face in the hotel breakfast room, when I asked you for company,
You forgave me for my rudeness. When I looked into your eyes,
I felt it very strongly and it moved me deeply.
Now, dawn is breaking in the garden, and London is beginning to wake up.
So, this time... Good morning, young lady.
Strawberry Man

Chapter 4

Needless to say, this letter was a bit of a shock to the young woman who received it.
That day, the many sights of London held little interest for her.
So boring, in fact, that the sweaty dad even flew off to his beloved Texas.
And just once, with high hopes, I decided to hurry back home.
However, the cold attitude towards the proposal was clear.
This proved to be a false expectation. He sighed and sought solace.
I headed to the bar in search of it.
That evening, the two from Texas went to His Majesty's Theatre.
A new work by Bernard Shaw was playing.
The author of the Landesman also had a young and beautiful American who was absent-mindedly listening to the lines.
The American eagerly awaited the next morning.
Hoping so, I went to bed at midnight.
My expectations were not disappointed. The English maid, who showed no emotion,
Early Saturday morning, she appeared at her bedside with a letter in her hand, which she turned up her nose at.
He handed it to me as if to say, "I'll help you, but I'm not impressed."
The woman quickly opened the envelope.

Dear Texas Girl
I am writing this letter late in the afternoon. A long, dark shadow is falling on the sunny lawn.
And the world is so bright and calm that I
I can't even tell if that tragic night I spent there really happened.
That's about it.
When I read the newspaper, I start to wonder if it was all a dream.
The word "America" is not even mentioned. Think of America.
If this had happened, there would be newspaper reporters swarming all over this apartment building right now.
If you think about it, it's even more surprising.
I know a newspaper called "The Great Joe Chamberlain" that he wrote recently.
He died at 10 o'clock at night, but the newspaper finally reported it the next day at noon.
And there it was! I shouted out loud, "It's a special species!" It was indeed a special species,
.... Different countries have different styles, after all.
It was probably difficult for Inspector Bray to hide the incident from journalists.
That is why the great and poor British newspapers
They are being sold without any knowledge of the Adelphi Terrace incident.
News-hungry newspapers casually reported on the huge war clouds on the horizon.
A reeling Austria declared war on tiny Serbia, and the Kaiser was now
The most dramatic turn of events he could have done was to return to Berlin in a hurry.
So everyone thinks that all of Europe will soon be a bloodbath.
It's a nightmare born from scorching days and sleepless nights!
But I'm sure you want to know about the Adelphi Terrace incident.
A tragic sequel occurred that deepened the mystery immeasurably.
And I'm the only one who noticed it. But let's start from the beginning.
I mailed your letter at dawn and returned home after a night of tension.
I was exhausted. I lay down on the bed but could not sleep.
I'm becoming more and more aware of the terrible situation I'm in.
The way Inspector Bray looked at me also showed me how I had come to live in this apartment.
I didn't like the sound of his voice when I heard it either.
I thought that I could not rest easy until the perpetrator was caught.
The clues... Chinese daisies, scarab beetle tie clips, Homburg hats...
I began to try to solve the mystery.
It was then that the four copies of the documents that Bray had thought were insignificant and tossed in the trash were discovered.
I remembered the Mail. I looked over the inspector's shoulder as he examined the paper and saw that it
I saw that it was folded with our favorite part, the "Column of Agony," facing up.
I happened to have last week's Daily Mail on my desk.
You can see why.
I got up, found the newspaper, and began to read.
That's when I made a surprising discovery.
When I realized this, I was so shocked that I was stunned and didn't know what to do.
It didn't immediately come to mind. After much thought,
He said it was a mistake to wait for the Daily Mail to return in the morning and ignore it.
I did what I could to point it out.
Bray arrived about eight o'clock, and a few minutes later another man was seen coming up the stairs.
I was shaving at the time, and when I had finished,
I put on my bathrobe and hurried to the captain's room.
The man's body was being carried out. Bray and a friend arrived at almost the same time.
The only other person there was a sleepy-eyed policeman.
Bray's greeting clearly indicated that he was in a bad mood.
The stranger, a tall, tanned man, introduced himself very politely.
He said he was a close friend of the deceased, Colonel Hughes.
I was shocked and saddened by the news, but I wondered if there was anything I could do.
Apparently he came to visit.
"Inspector," I said, "I was in this room last night reading the Daily Mail.
You got four copies of this book. It doesn't give you any clues, so you threw it in the trash.
That was the end, but I want to explain a surprising fact, so please take a look again.
Could you please take it for me?" He was bending over the trash can and was doing something that would be considered dishonorable.
The arrogant official then jerked his chin at the policeman.
When he brought them over, I chose one and spread it out on the table. "This is for July 27th."
I said.
I pointed to the middle of the Agony column. Your daughter has picked up a newspaper too.
If you have a look, check it out for yourself. Here's what it says:

"Rangoon. The Chinese daisies are in full bloom in the gardens of Canterbury. So beautiful.
Especially the white ones."

Bray groaned and opened his little eyes. I picked up the newspaper the next day, the 28th.
It was raised.

"Rangoon. We had no choice but to sell my father's tie clip.
It's an emerald in the shape of a scarab beetle that my father brought back from Cairo."

Bray was completely absorbed in my explanation. He leaned heavily towards me.
He was weighing on me and breathing heavily. Encouraged by this, I read the newspaper of the 29th.
spread it out in front of him.

"Rangoon. My Homburg hat was blown into the river and never found again."

"And finally," I said to the inspector, "the last message of July 30th...
It was sold on the street about 12 hours before Fraser-Freer was killed.
There it was. Please take a look."

"Rangoon. Ten o'clock tonight. Regent Street. . . . Y.O.G."

Bray was silent.
"As you know, Inspector, Captain Fraser-Freer has been with Lang for the past two years.
I was stationed in
But he remained silent. I was beginning to hate that fox.
He just stared at me with those tiny eyes. Finally, he said in a stern voice,
Ta.
"How did you find this message?" he demands.
You didn't come into this room after I left last night, did you?" he asked.
He turned angrily to the officer. "I gave orders..."
 No,  I interjected,  I did not enter this room.
By chance, I had the Daily Mail organized in my room.
By sheer coincidence..."
I realized I had messed up. The discovery of these messages
It's just too good to be true. Again, it makes me suspicious.
It ended up like this.
"No, thank you," said Bray. "I'll keep that in mind."
"Have you contacted my friend at the consulate?" I asked.
"Confirmed. That's all. May I ask you to leave?"
I walked out.
About 20 minutes after returning to the room, there was a knock on the door.
Sasa came in. He was a cheerful man in his early forties, and he was from England.
He must have gotten sunburned somewhere other than the face. He had gray hair around his temples.
I did.
"Well, this is a terrible case," he began without preamble.
did.
"Exactly," I replied. "Please have a seat."
"Thank you," he said, sitting down and looking me in the eye without hesitation. "I'm a police officer."
"I mean," he added meaningfully, "they're very suspicious people.
I often find myself suspecting things when there is no evidence.
I sympathize with you, for I see you as an honest man.
So, if you need an ally, I'll help you."
I was touched and thanked him as politely as I could.
He was so sympathetic and kind, and especially sincere, that I
I told him everything without thinking. About Archie and the letter of introduction, about how I was fascinated by the garden.
The captain said he had never heard of a cousin named Archie.
The surprising truth that was revealed to me, and the subsequent unpleasant situation I was in. He was sitting in a chair.
I slumped and closed my eyes.
"I think that if you have an unsealed letter of introduction, anyone can open it and ask what it says.
I want to see how he praises himself so much. That's human kindness.
I guess so. I did that a few times too.
I would like to..."
"Yes, that's right," I said. "It wasn't sealed, so I didn't read it.
It ended up being a bit long for a letter of introduction.
Considering my short association with Enright, I was highly esteemed.
It seemed like too much. Then he decided to go to Interlaken.
He also wrote that he was planning to go to London around August 1st."
"August 1st," repeated the colonel. "Tomorrow. Well, I'm sorry to trouble you.
If not, could you please tell me what happened last night?"
I once again ran through the events of that tragic night. The argument in the hallway.
The big man I met, and how he escaped by climbing over a rarely used gate.
"Hey, you know," Colonel Hughes said, getting up to leave, "this
The threads of tragedy stretch far and wide. Some to India, some to the name
I can't tell you, but to another country. To be honest, I was involved in this incident as a friend of the captain.
But for a while, this is something we
Please keep this a secret. The police are well-intentioned, but sometimes they're stupid.
You're mistaken. You're sure you're reading the Daily Mail with that strange message.
You said you had a
"It's in this desk," I said, taking out the newspaper and handing it to him.
"I'd like to take it if you don't mind," he said.
Of course, you must not tell anyone that you visited me. See you again. Goodbye.
Unara"
And then he left, taking with him the newspaper with the strange code to Rangoon.
Moni.
His visit somehow cheered me up wonderfully. Since 7 o'clock last night, I
For the first time, he began to breathe freely again.
So, my dear mystery-loving young lady, that was the incident that occurred on the afternoon of the last day of July, 1914.
It looks like this.
I am sending this letter tonight. This is my third letter, and the first one carried
I carry dreams three times bigger than my dreams, for they are dreams that the moon shines on the garden.
This is because they grow not only at night but also in bright sunlight.
Ah, my heart is so happy right now. By the way, last night on The Simpsons
Since we had eaten, except for the cup of coffee Walters gave me with a trembling hand,
I haven't eaten anything yet. I have to go eat now. First, grapefruit.
I'm going to eat grapefruit. I suddenly started to like grapefruit.
vinegar.
It may seem like a clich  to say this, but...we have a lot of common interests!
Former Strawberry Man

The third letter from a pen pal in the Agony Column was written by
This further increased the excitement and tension that had been created in the hearts of the young, beautiful women at the Hotel de la Reine.
On Saturday morning, when she received the letter, she sat in her room thinking for a long time about the mystery of Adelphi Terrace.
Captain Fraser-Freer of the British Indian Army
When I first heard he had been stabbed to death, the news was like losing an old friend.
It had a shocking effect on her, as if she had been caught in a car crash. She was passionate about arresting the murderer and was adamant that she would not give up.
The Chinese daisy, the scarab beetle tie clip, and the Homburg hat suggest
I searched relentlessly for this.
Perhaps the reason she was so keen to have the perpetrator arrested was because she still didn't know his name.
Of course, I've never spoken to this cheerful young friend of mine, but he's been caught up in an incident and is in danger.
What I learned about Jeffrey West,
That is, through a casual glance at a restaurant, and above all through a letter, she
I was beginning to like him very much.
Then the hat, tie pin, and Chinese daisy that had brought them together in the first place...
A third letter arrived, telling me that it had something to do with that column in the Daily Mail.
By chance, she had the first four days' worth of newspapers in her hands.
I went to my room, pulled out the newspaper, and gasped.
Staring up at her from the adverts was a man writing about Chinese daisies in a Canterbury garden.
It was a code to Rangoon. The Strawberry Man had also quoted it in three other newspapers.
It had the same message on it. She sat there, thinking for a moment.
Actually, I was made to wait for an hour in the lobby on the first floor so that we could go to have breakfast together.
I sat there until I heard my father knocking on the door, hungry and angry.
is.
"What are you doing? Let's go!" cried his father as he entered the room.
Are you going to sit here all morning? You might not be hungry,
I'm very humble."
She quickly apologized and prepared to go down with him.
As she made her plans, she was determined not to think of Adelphi Terrace at all.
To what extent she succeeded was determined by her father's words before dinner that night.
Maybe you'll understand if you ask.
"Marian, are you speechless? You're acting like a newly elected official.
I can't solve this. If you can't make our expedition a little more exciting, I'll pack up.
I'm going home."
She smiled, patted her father on the shoulder, and promised to be more careful.
But the father looked depressed.
"I think you should go home anyway," he continued.
This war will spread like wildfire. The Kaiser yesterday in Berlin
I'm sure I'll sign the mobilization order. For the past week, I've been in Berlin.
Canadian Pacific shares continue to fall on the stock exchange.
This means that Britain is expected to enter the war.
He looked gloomily at the future.
It may seem like he has an extraordinary understanding of
No, he had just been talking to the shoeshine man at the Carlton Hotel.
"Well," he said with sudden decision, "I'll get in touch with the steamship company first thing Monday morning."
I'm going to the office."

Chapter 5

The girl was disheartened by his words. She had been unable to solve the mystery that had so engrossed her.
Without getting far, they will set sail from Liverpool or Southampton.
She pictured herself in a state of misery. She had cleverly managed to turn her father's mind to food.
I tried to deflect. I thought the best place to eat was Simpsons on the Strand.
She said it was delicious. Why don't we walk there? She took a little detour to
She said we should go through Delphi Terrace. She had been going through Adelphi Terrace for some time.
It seemed like he wanted to see the movie.
As I passed through the quiet Strand, I noticed the imposing and forbidding gates of the houses,
Carefully examining the lovely garden behind it, she seeks out the source of the strange mystery.
However, all the houses looked very similar.
She saw that See had stopped.
After dinner, his father would play "a pretentious English play with teacups in it."
He fervently argued that they should go to the music hall rather than see the movie. He won.
Later that night, as they were returning to the Carlton Hotel, they noticed that special editions were being handed out on the street.
Germany was on war footing!
The Texas girl wondered what letter would surprise her tomorrow morning.
I went to bed without thinking. The next day, I received this letter:

Dear Senator's Daughter,
Or the House of Representatives? I wasn't sure which.
When Sasu isn't at home, he explores Europe through his daughter's eyes.
If you are not listed, you must be a member of some respectable organization.
I guess that's what it was. I could tell that much at a glance.
But Washington is far from London, and our biggest
The concern is London, though I don't want my father's constituents to know that.
Once you stop feeling like a tourist, London is really wonderful.
It is an amazing city. I fell in love with it when I was seven years old.
I'm reading a fascinating essay written by a newspaper reporter called "Seven Years Old"
For him, the whole shining city was a fish market on the corner of the high street.
I was at the age where I was known for my 'Bonus Chips'.
I walked along the crowded grey streets. Sometimes I bumped into trash cans, sometimes I was struck by romance.
I would like to introduce such a London to you someday.
I'll protect you from the trash, you need to protect me from the trash.
But if you think about it, you're not that absent-minded.
You won't.
You want to know about Adelphi Terrace, the now defunct British Indian Army
I know you're talking about the Captain. Yesterday in the Daily Mail,
After discovering the message and receiving a visit from Colonel Hughes, everything else passed without incident.
In the evening, I sent you my third letter and then spent some time away from the glittering cityscape.
I walked back to my room, passing through alternating periods of bright light and darkness.
While the people living in six million homes swelter in the heat, I smoke a cigarette on my balcony.
It was smoldering.
Nothing happened. I was a little disappointed and felt a little cheated.
It was the first time I had spent the evening after watching thrilling plays back-to-back days.
The feeling of being cheated that comes from staying at home. Today is the first day of August.
Even though the event had begun, everything was quiet.
The sudden death of Captain Razor-Freer took a further turn and left me shaken.
It wasn't until this evening that I realized this. It was a truly bizarre turn of events.
I'd like to talk about that right away.
I ate at a small restaurant in Soho this evening.
The waiter was Italian, so I foolishly and proudly replied, "Learn in 10 Lessons."
He spoke to me in Italian and was amused.
I spoke of the town of Fiesole, where I once lived in the moonlight.
I once traveled down the hill from Zoll  to Florence.
I will never forget the endless wall of flowers blooming in full bloom.
Two nuns in long grey robes slamming the gates of the Do-in temple.
A searchlight from the ground bounces around the Arno River and the roofs of houses.
I also remember that here in Europe, Mars, the god of war,
The flowers were like the eyes of a god, and they were constantly nodding from above.
Every now and then he would lean over and brush my face.
I began to think that I was in heaven, not a second-rate hotel.
I think I might be able to take a trip like that. Someday, someday...
I dined in Soho, and in the hot, steamy August evening,
I returned to the terrace. The mystery that had engulfed me seemed to have stopped moving.
There was a taxi waiting in front of the apartment, but I didn't think much of it.
Without thinking, I stepped into a dark hallway and climbed the familiar stairs.
The door to his room was open. The study was dark except for the lights of London outside.
Just the sunlight is shining in. When you enter the entrance, you can smell the faint sweet scent of lilacs.
There were no lilacs in the garden, and even if there were, it was not the season for them.
No, this smell was brought by a woman... in front of the desk.
By the woman who sat down and raised her head as I entered.
"Sorry to intrude," she said with the preciseness typical of someone who learned English from books.
He used perfect language: "I just want to talk to you about something. I'll be right back."
I didn't know what to say. I just opened my mouth like an elementary school kid.
He stood there.
"I want to give you some advice. People who give advice are not always well liked.
"No, I don't think you'll listen to me anyway."
At that time, I was finally able to speak.
"Yes, I have," I said foolishly. "But first,
"Riwo," and reached for the matches on the mantelpiece.
The woman quickly rose to her feet and faced me. She was wearing a veil.
It wasn't a thick veil, but a fluffy, flaky one.
It was enough to hide my face.
"Please," she cried out, "don't turn on the lights."
When I hesitated to reply, he added in a pouting tone:
"It's not a big request, so please don't refuse."
I suppose I should have insisted on turning on the light. But her voice was
Charming, impeccable manners, and the smell of lilacs reminds me of my old home.
It reminded me of the garden at home.
"Okay," I said.
"That's good, thank you," she replied. Her tone changed.
"Last Thursday night, a little after seven o'clock, you heard sounds of a struggle in the room above.
That's what you told the police."
"That's right," I said.
"Are you sure about the time?" I thought she was laughing.
"Was it slower or earlier?"
"A little after seven, I'm sure," I answered. "Because
I just came back from dinner and was unlocking the door when I saw Big Ben in the Houses of Parliament.
but  "
She held up her hand to stop him.
"It doesn't matter," she said, her voice heavy with steel.
"You don't remember clearly anymore. Think about it.
I think it may have been before 6:30 that I heard the sounds of fighting.
It became like this."
"Oh?" I said, trying to sound sarcastic.
I was already taken aback by her tone.
"Yes, that's it!" she said. "The next time I see Inspector Bray,
"It might have been 6:30," he said. "One more time."
On second thought, it became less clear."
"No matter how beautiful a woman asks me to, I would never distort the facts on such an important matter.
It can't bend. It's after seven o'clock..."
"I'm not asking you to do anything for women," he said.
She replied,  I m asking you to do that for your sake.
If you refuse, it could be very difficult for you."
"I have no idea what you're talking about..."
She was silent for a moment, then turned around. I could see her looking at me through the veil.
I felt like I was being stared at.
"Who is Archibald Enright?" she asked. I was shocked.
I was stunned. I realized what weapon she was holding.
The police,  she continued,  have received the letter of introduction you brought to the captain.
was signed by a man who called Fraser-Freer his dear cousin.
I still didn't know that it was someone completely unknown to the Captain's family.
But once that information reaches Scotland Yard,
There is little chance of avoiding arrest. The police will link you to the crime.
You may not be able to do that, but you'll be in a very awkward position.
Shouldn't individual freedom be valued?
Before you even get dressed, you'll be attracting widespread public attention..."
"So?"
"So you have a misremembering of the time you heard the fight.
So maybe it was 6:30 and not 7:00.
   
"Or else?"
"Otherwise the letter of introduction you give to the Captain will be sent anonymously to Inspector Bray.
Sho"
"Do you have a letter?" I cried.
 I don t have one,  she answered,  but the letter will be sent to Bray.
You will be found out to have been lying, and there will be no escape.
Yo!"
I became very anxious. I felt like I was caught in a web of suspicion.
But I was also indignant at the woman's confident voice.
"But I still refuse to change my testimony. The truth is the truth..."
The woman was already moving towards the door. She turned around.
"To-morrow," she answered, "I think I will see Inspector Bray, whom I have just mentioned.
As I said, I am here to give you advice.
It doesn't matter if it's 30 minutes early or late.
But that difference means prison to you. Good night."
She went out, and I followed her down the hallway.
Then I heard the rattling sound of a taxi taking off.
I went back to my room and sat down. I was upset. Outside the window, the city was
It's a constant symphony: buses, trains, voices that never stop.
I looked out. Cold brick houses crowded together, cold English
What a vast land the Suzanians inhabit! I feel so lonely.
I felt a bit scared, too. It was like this huge
It felt like the city was slowly closing in on me.
Who is this mysterious woman? What impact does she have on Captain Fraser-Freer's life?
And perhaps even to his death. Why?
How dare you come to my room and make such an outrageous request?
I decided that I should stick to the truth even at the cost of a comfortable life.
And I would not have let go of that determination, for soon another man
I must come and visit. This visit is far more mysterious and surprising than the first.
It was.
Walters knocked on my door and told me that two gentlemen wanted to see me.
It was about nine o'clock when I arrived. Norma immediately came into my study.
Lieutenant John Fraser-Freer and a respectable old gentleman, the latter of which hangs in the wall of a nobleman's house.
His face was like a faded portrait.
"I hope you won't mind," said young Fraser-Freer.
I assured him that I was fine. The young man's face was gaunt and haggard.
There was a hint of terrible suffering in his body, but still, a strong determination was evident in his body.
It's overflowing like a halo.
"Let me introduce my father. He is General Fraser-Freer, retired officer.
I have come here on very important business..."
The old man muttered something but I couldn't hear it.
The general was shocked by the loss of his eldest son.
complied, but the young man paced the floor in great distress.
"I won't stay long," he said. "And at a time like this,
I don't feel like talking in a roundabout way. I'll be frank. We're telling you
I have a very important request to make of you.
It's not possible, but even if it was, we can't blame you.
S-s ...
"I beg of you," the general suddenly interrupted. "But
It may seem strange, but I don't know if I should ask for a favor or if I should be refused.
I don't know if that's a good idea or not."
"Dad, please, I'll tell you..." The young man's voice was full of consideration.
He was nervous, but resolute. He turned to me.
"According to your statement to the police, a little after seven o'clock,
I heard the sounds of a struggle from the room above. As a result, my brother lost his life...
Mari, that... you understand."
Considering the purpose of the visitor who had left less than an hour earlier, the young man's question was surprising.
It was something that should have been done.
"That is what I testified," I said. "It is the truth."
"Of course," said Lieutenant Fraser-Freer. "But... well...
...The truth is, we came here to ask you to change your testimony.
Please forgive us for the cruel loss of our loved ones...
I will never forget this favor, but...the time of the dispute could not have been changed to 6:30.
Please."
I was stunned.
"The... reason?" I finally managed to ask aloud.
"I can't tell you the details," the young man replied. "Just this one thing.
I will tell you that last Thursday evening at seven o'clock I happened to be at the Savoy Hotel.
I was having dinner with some friends. They are unlikely to forget that moment.
and"
The old general jumped up.
"Norman," he cried, "I can't let you do this.
Absolutely not..."
"Dad, be quiet," the young man said wearily.
"We've discussed it thoroughly. You made a promise...
  
The old gentleman sank into his chair and buried his face in his hands.
"If you would be willing to change your testimony," said young Fraser-Freer.
He continued, "I immediately went to the police and told them who killed my brother...
I confess that it was. The police suspect me. They
Late in the afternoon, I know I bought a gun.
They knew I was in debt to my brother.
And we fought about money. And then I thought I would gain from my brother's death.
That it's me, and only me, who does it."
He suddenly stopped talking and turned towards me, holding out his arms in front of him.
With a pleading gesture I'll never forget.
"Do it for me," he cried. "Make me confess."
Please let this horrible event end here and now."
No one has ever had to respond to such a request.
It must have been.
"Why?" I couldn't help but say it, and I repeated it over and over again.
Why? Why?"
The lieutenant turned to me, but I never want to see him look like that again.
I don't think so.
"Because I loved my brother," he said, "that's why. I did it for his honor."
For the sake of my family's honor, I ask you to do this. Please believe me.
Please, this is a really difficult request. I can't say anything more.
I can't say. Did you have any contact with my brother?"
"Just a friendly neighbour."
"Then, for my brother's sake... please listen to my wish."
"But... when it comes to murder..."
 You heard the sounds of a fight, and I m going to tell you I was fighting with my brother.
He said he attacked his brother in self-defense." He turned to his father.
"It's only a few years in prison... I can handle it.
"Yes!" he cried. "For the honor of the family!"
The old gentleman groaned, but did not lift his head. The young man's face faded.
I paced back and forth on the carpet like a lion in a cage.
I stood there wondering what I had gotten.
"I know what you're thinking," said the lieutenant. "Trust your ears.
You may not believe it, but it is as you have heard. It is all... you
To borrow an American phrase... it's up to you.
"To you. I've been to your country," he said with a miserable laugh.
"I think I understand Americans. You
They are not the kind of people who would reject someone in grief, someone like me right now."
I looked at him, then at the General, then back at him.
"I must think about it," I thought suddenly, thinking of Colonel Hughes.
"I'll let you know my conclusion later...maybe tomorrow."
"Tomorrow," said the young man, "we will be called before Inspector Bray.
You will then hear the answer. Know that it is Jesus.
I hope so."
Without a word of farewell, he and the broken-hearted old gentleman went out.
As soon as they closed, I rushed to the phone and called the number Colonel Hughes had given me.
When I heard his voice again over the phone line, I felt a surge of relief.
I said I needed to meet him right away. He was
I told him that it was a coincidence, but that he was just about to come to see me.
I walked about in a daze for half an hour until the Colonel came.
As soon as I came in, I began to recount the story of my two amazing visits.
He said very little about the woman's visit.
She asked me if I had had children, and when I told her about the lilac perfume,
He smiled and laughed as he told the story of young Fraser-Freer's absurd wish.
Then he whistled and said:
"Why! Interesting. Very interesting. But I'm not surprised. That young man
There is a place for that. 
"But what about me?" I asked.
Colonel Hughes smiled.
"Whatever you do doesn't make a difference," he said.
"Norman Fraser-Freer did not kill his brother.
"Bray is a man who has been accused of tampering with his testimony. He thought for a moment, and said, 'Bray, if you change your testimony,
He'll be very happy, because he's trying to connect the incident with the young lieutenant.
After all consideration, if I were in your position, I would
Don't wait until the meeting to say something to satisfy the inspector."
"So... you're saying the time of the conflict might be wrong?"
"Yes. Just because you say so, young Fraser-Freer
I guarantee you won't be eternally damned.
That would be convenient for me too. 
"Yes," I said, "but I have no idea what that means."
It's not worth it."
"Of course. I would love to explain, but I can't.
Let me just say that the War Department took Captain Fraser-Freer's death very seriously.
And two completely separate investigations are underway simultaneously in pursuit of the assassin.
One is under Bray's command, the other under my command.
I don't know that they are investigating this, and I would like to avoid knowing as much as possible.
I think so. You are free to cooperate with whichever investigation you prefer."
"I would rather cooperate with you than Bray."
"Very well!" he replied. "You've done well so far.
If you don't mind, could you please help me out tonight?
I was planning to come here before I got the call to do that.
The man who called himself Archibald Enright, the man who wrote the letter of introduction to the Captain,
You still remember and can check, right?"
"Of course you can," I said.
"So, please give me an hour or so. Please prepare your hat."
So, Miss Carlton, I just left Leimer
I've just been to Limehouse. Do you know where Limehouse is?
I don't think there is any, and I don't think I'll ever know.
It's nauseating, colorful and sinister all at once.
still fills my nose. The ominous landscape still floats before my eyes.
Limehouse is London's Chinatown.
Walking along West India Dock Road, the scent of a nasty crime lingers.
At the center, at the bottom of the city's dregs, lies that particular
Not only different appearances, but also outlaws of different races and lands gather in the dim light.
They wander the streets of the city. Arabs, Indians, Malays, Japanese,
Black people from the Congo, white people from Scandinavia... all the people across the seven seas
You can see the guys being dumped out of the boat. Here are the drunken beasts.
With their wages in their pockets, they each seek their own crime.
For those who couldn't stand it, the opium lamp was lit at regular intervals.
There are signs lined up.
Colonel Hughes and I went in. The narrow Limehouse Street
Although the shop was lit up in yellow spots by the light coming from the dark store,
It was pitch black. The shutters of the shop were tightly closed, and only a faint ray of light shone through.
Only the water leaked out. I walked around there for a long time and finally stopped.
It was the darkness outside the black entrance to Harry Sun Lee's "restaurant."
We waited for ten or fifteen minutes, and then a man came down the street.
He came and stopped in front of the door.
I felt like I had seen it somewhere before. Then, the faint light of the lamp...
...which shows Harry Sun's true business...the man's paleness
It hit me in the face. I saw that man the other day, on a cool evening in Interlaken.
I remembered that the Jungfrau towered over me, and Limehouse
In Interlaken, where you can't survive even for a moment.
"Enright?" whispered Hughes.
"No doubt about it!" I said.
"All right!" he replied emphatically.
Then another man came down the street and suddenly stood motionless in front of the colonel.
I got it.
"Keep an eye on him," Hughes said quietly. "Don't take your eyes off him."
"I understand." The man saluted, climbed the stairs, and walked lightly to the black, gloomy door.
He whistled loudly.
When the clock at Millwall Dock struck eleven, the Colonel and I got on the bus,
We were returning to a bright and cheerful London. Hughes barely spoke on the bus.
and tomorrow I was to satisfy Inspector Bray.
He repeated this advice and then went off, leaving me alone in the Strand.
So now, my dear, I sit in my study, and soon at dawn
We are waiting for the most important day to come. Tonight has been an eventful night.
You'll agree. A woman with lilac perfume
He was threatened that if he did not catch the handsome young lieutenant, he would face a terrible fate.
They told the same lie for the sake of their family's honor, and made sure he was arrested and imprisoned.
And tonight I will go to hell and to Interlaken.
I met Archibald Enright there and saw him in league with the devil.
I need to go to bed, but I know I won't be able to fall asleep.
There is no doubt that the Captain's murder case will reach a turning point.
I ended up playing the lead role against my will.
The symphony of this great grey, sad city is now merely a distant murmur
I can't. It's almost midnight. I'm going to mail this letter now.
Since this is London, I'll use the British phrase "post" to mail it.
After that, I wait for dawn in my dimly lit room.
But I was always thinking about the Captain, his brother, Hughes, Limehouse, and Enwright.
I will think of you often...no, over and over again.
In my last letter I said that a world war was absurd.
On his return from Limehouse, the newspapers reported that the Emperor had signed the mobilization order.
Austria entered the war, Serbia entered the war, Germany entered the war, Russia and France entered the war.
War. Hughes says that Britain will soon follow suit.
I think there is no doubt about that. It will be a terrible thing to happen to us.
The future is uncertain. I believe that at least for you, it will bring only happiness.
I'm praying.
Ladies, when I write good night, I say it out loud as I write it.
And there's something in my voice that I can't really talk about right now.
There is.
Man in the Agony Column

The violet eyes of the Texas girl were pleased to see the book she was reading in her room on Sunday morning.
However, the sentence predicting Britain's early entry into the war was
It reminded her of an unexpected and inconvenient event.
When the special edition comes out and confirms that your favorite shoe shiner's prediction was correct,
My father, who is usually calm, looked flustered. He is not a relaxed person.
And the father is not above following his daughter's orders when it comes to matters he doesn't consider important.
However, if you recognize the need for a firm stance, you will not be able to move even with a lever.
She knew very well that America was a better country than ever.
He seemed to be able to see the light and decided to return home immediately.
Ta.
At that moment, there was a knock on the door, and her father came in.
One look at Dakuno's clearly dissatisfied face cheered her up.
"I've been to the steamship company," he panted, wiping his bald head.
"They were open as usual on weekdays, but it was practically closed.
There's nothing we can do. All the boats are booked up to the railings. We have to get out of here.
It will take two weeks, maybe even longer."
"That's a pity," said the girl.
"No, you're not. You're happy to be stuck like this.
You think eating meat is like something out of a romantic novel.
I want my passion back." He fanned his face with a newspaper. "Happiness
Yesterday, I went to the express delivery office and withdrew a lot of gold coins.
Once that happens, it's going to be a little hard to cash checks in this town.
Right."
"That was wise."
"Are you ready for breakfast?"
"It's working fine," she smiled.
They went downstairs. The daughter hummed a revue ditty, and the father glared at her.
She was very happy to be in London for a while longer.
How could I depart when that mystery is still unsolved?
she thought.

Chapter 6

During the long and painful days of war, the people of London remembered that it was their last peaceful Sunday.
The day passed by, filled with tension and anxiety, and I began to wonder if that was really the case.
Early Monday morning, the fifth letter arrived from the Agony Column boy.
When I read it, I knew that no matter what, I couldn't leave London now.
It was something like this.

Dear Miss from Your Country
Calling you like this is a good thing for me on this hot London afternoon.
Because there is no word that sounds as pleasant as the word "mother country."
Dwayne. The smartly dressed upper classes aren't on holiday,
Still, Fifth Avenue was cheerful and lively. The shade of the trees was cool, and the streets of Brooklyn and Queen Elizabeth
Foreigners living in the southern areas such as the towns of Hanoi can be seen everywhere, but
Washington Square is as beautiful and wonderful as ever. If you close your eyes, you'll see this.
I can't wait any longer to go back to my home country. Ron
Don had never seemed so cruel, so hopeless, so oppressive.
For as I write this letter, a constable is sitting beside me, and he and I
I'm due to head to Scotland Yard shortly.
He was arrested for the murder of Captain Zar-Freer!
Last night, I predicted that today would be the climax of the incident.
I also understand that I have to play a role in this drama, albeit reluctantly.
But the series of unexpected events that occurred with the morning
It was beyond my imagination. I never dreamed that the web of suspicion I feared would engulf me today.
I don't think it's fair for Inspector Bray to detain me.
What I don't understand is why Colonel Hughes...
Well, you would of course like to hear it all from the beginning.
I'll start from the beginning. At eleven o'clock this morning, a policeman came to my room.
So, at the request of the inspector, I must report to Scotland Yard immediately.
That's not possible.
We, the constable and I, were somewhere behind New Scotland Yard.
We climbed the narrow staircase to the inspector's office. Bray was waiting for us.
He was smiling and confident. I was
It's a small detail, but I remember that he had a white rose in his buttonhole.
He greeted me more amiably than usual. He began by saying that the police were investigating the murder of the captain.
He said the suspect was arrested.
"There's one thing I want to confirm. Did you hear the sounds of a struggle from upstairs?
I said it was a little after seven o'clock. You seemed a little excited then.
When you're in that situation, you're going to make mistakes.
Is it possible that you got the time wrong?"
I remembered Hughes's advice to satisfy the inspector, and I reconsidered.
In the end, I felt a bit unsure of myself, he said. It might have been before seven o'clock.
I can't... like 6:30.
"I suppose so," said Bray. He seemed pleased. "Oh
I know you'll be nervous tomorrow... I understand. Wilkinson, take the prisoners.
Bring it."
The officer, having received the order, turned around and left the room, and immediately Norman Fraser-F
He returned with Lieutenant Colonel Leah. The young man was pale. At a glance, I could tell he had been asleep for days.
We found that this was not the case.
"Lieutenant," Bray said sharply, "your brother died.
Is it true that the captain lent you a large sum of money about a year ago?"
"That's true," the lieutenant replied in a low voice.
"You and your brother had a fight about the amount of money you spent."
"yes"
"With your brother's death, you are the only surviving member of the General's father.
My relationship with the loan sharks has changed completely. Is that correct?
"I think so."
"Last Thursday, you went to the Army and Navy department store and...
You bought a military-style repeating pistol. You had a military-style gun, but you killed people with that.
That would make murder investigations absurdly easy for the police."
The young man doesn't answer.
"Let us think of it this way," continued Bray, "last Thursday evening at six o'clock
At half past eight you go to your brother's room in Adelphi Terrace.
An argument breaks out. You get angry. If only your brother wasn't there, you would want it.
The irresistible wealth is yours, and... I'm just imagining...
 You find a strange knife on the desk that your brother brought back from India.
It's quieter than a gun, so it's safer. You grab it and..."
"Why are you imagining it?" the young man interrupted. "I'm not trying to hide anything.
I didn't. You're right, I did it! I killed my brother.
Let's get this case over with quickly."
At that moment, a certain look came over Inspector Bray's face.
Even amidst the tension and ups and downs of today,
This is the expression that comes to mind over and over again. He was shocked by this confession.
It was all too clear to him that such an easy victory left him feeling empty.
I thought he would be able to fight. He wanted the young man to fight.
Maybe that's just the way police officers are.
"My dear," he said, "I'm sorry, but there's no other way. Please come with your men."
If only..."
At that moment, the inspector's door opened and Hughes, smiling calmly,
The Colonel came in. Bray chuckled with pride at the sight of the soldier.
Ta.
"Colonel," he said, "you've come to the right place. This morning, you and the captain's assassin
When you heard about the honor of cooperating with the investigation, you foolishly whispered,
I offered you a nice bet..."
"I remember," Hughes replied. "If you win, you get the scarab beetle.
If I win, I get a Homburg hat.
I did."
"Exactly," said Bray. "You're the one who found the culprit, not me.
Well, Colonel, I need to get you some scarabs.
Lieutenant Peter Fraser-Freer has just confessed to the murder of his brother.
I was about to get him to confess and take a statement."
"Oh, my!" Hughes said calmly. "Interesting... very interesting.
Interesting. But before you say you lost the bet, and you forced the lieutenant to
Before I make you confess the whole story, there's one thing I want to say."
"Tell me," Bray grinned.
"This morning, when you were kind enough to lend me two of your men, I met a woman
I said I was considering arresting her and taking her to Scotland Yard.
"I'm here." He walked to the door and beckoned. A tall, blonde-haired man with long eyes
A woman of about 35 years old with a beautiful nose came in.
A strong smell of smoke hit my nose. "Inspector, let me introduce you to a man who used to live in Berlin.
He has lived in Delhi and Rangoon and currently lives in Battersea Park Road, Leitrim.
Countess Sophie de Graff, of 17 Grove."
The woman faced Bray, her eyes frightened and haggard.
There was.
"Are you the inspector?" she asked.
"Yes," said Bray.
"And I see you have a human heart," she said angrily.
"Please, you devil..." he continued, his eyes fixed on Hughes.
Please protect me from the cruel questions of
"You're exaggerating, Countess," Hughes smiled. "But...
I would be glad to forgive you if you would tell the inspector what you have just said to me.
let's"
The woman's lips were tightly closed and she looked long and steadily into Inspector Bray's eyes.
"To this man," she finally said, nodding toward Colonel Hughes.
"This person made me confess... I don't know why I confessed, but
I don't know even a minute."
"What did you confess?" Bray blinked his little eyes.
"Last Thursday evening, at half-past six," said the woman, "I was at the Adelphi
I went to the captain's room on the terrace. We got into an argument and I took the Indian food that was on the desk.
I grabbed the dagger and plunged it right into his heart!"
A tense silence fell over that room at Scotland Yard.
For the first time, I noticed the little clock on the inspector's desk, for it suddenly
It began to tick away with a startlingly loud noise.
Bray looked surprised for a moment, then
He immediately put the mask back on. Lieutenant Fraser-Freer simply
He looked stunned. There was a look of obvious sneer on Colonel Hughes' face.
was floating.
"Please continue your story, Countess," he said, grinning.
The woman shrugged and turned her back on him disdainfully.
and stared only at Bray.
"It's a very short story," she said quickly.
It almost sounded like an apology to me. "I was in Rangoon with the Captain.
We met. My husband was working there, exporting rice. Fraser
Captain Freer often came to our house. We were... charming people.
Wow, the captain..."
"Go ahead," Hughes urged.
"We were beside ourselves in love," said the Countess.
"I believe he was given leave, but he returned to England.
When he left, he said he would never return to Rangoon.
I thought I would be transferred to Egypt, so I left my husband and got on the next ship.
I was ready to follow him. I believed in the Captain and knew he really loved me.
I did it because I thought he was my friend. I gave up everything for him.
And yet..."
Her voice trailed off and she took out her handkerchief. The smell of lilacs again.
filled the room.
"For some time after I came to London, I often saw the Captain.
Then I began to notice a change.
Perhaps his lonely days in India had become just a memory, and he was no longer...
And last Thursday morning he came to visit me.
Our relationship is over, you don't want to see me anymore...
He said he was planning to marry an English woman who had been waiting for him..."
The woman looked around at us pitifully.
"I was in despair," she said passionately. "I had given up everything in my life.
I abandoned him... Now he looks at me coldly and talks about marrying another woman.
That evening, I went to his room and pleaded with him...
Is it any wonder that I begged him to help me? But it was no use. The relationship ended.
He told me over and over again, and I lost my mind, filled with anger and despair.
In a fit of rage, I grabbed a knife from the desk and plunged it into his heart.
I was immediately filled with regret. I..."
"Wait a moment," Hughes interrupted. "Then
I'll let you know the details of the action later. That's wonderful, Countess.
The more you do it, the better you'll be at telling the story."
He walked over to Bray and we came face to face. I was clearly amused by his voice.
I heard a hint of hostility.
"Checkmate, Inspector," he said.
Bray said nothing. He sat down and looked up at the colonel.
was like stone.
"The scarab pin," Hughes continued, "is still available.
No. The match is a draw. You got a confession. But I got one too.
I got a confession the same way. 
"I can't believe it," Bray said angrily.
"It's a little hard to believe, even for me," replied the colonel. "Here
Last Thursday evening at 6:30, Captain Fraser-Freer was visited in his room and killed.
There are two people who want you to believe that I did."
He walked to the window and spun around dramatically.
He reflected,
"The strangest thing of all," he continued, "was that Thursday evening, half-past six,
The pair had tea together at Frigacci, a secluded restaurant in Soho.
That means he was drinking it!"
When the Colonel calmly offered this information, the mystery we were embroiled in
I suddenly realized that it was an endless labyrinth, and all the strength left my body.
I must admit that. The woman cried softly, and Lieutenant Fraser-Freer
jumped up.
"How do you know that?" he cried.
"I know," said Colonel Hughes. "One of my men happened to be nearby.
I was drinking tea at a nearby table.
Since this woman arrived in London,
Well... I got a request from a friend, and I followed her every move.
Your brother, the captain who died, was watching over him.
Just like that."
Lieutenant Fraser-Freer silently slumped in his chair and covered his face with his hands.
was.
"I'm sorry," Hughes said. "I'm really sorry.
Or he sacrificed himself to hide the truth. It was a noble and manly effort.
The War Department knew about it long before you did, because your brother
He succumbed to the temptation of this woman and instead of working for his country, England, he decided to marry her.
That he was spying for Itzu."
Fraser-Freer raised his head. As he spoke, the voice he had heard earlier
There was a much more sincere tone to it than when he made his shocking confession.
"It's all over," he said. "I've done all I can.
I did. It must have been a big blow to my father. We are a family of honor.
Colonel, as you probably know... you come from a family of military men with many generations of loyalty to your country.
I have never been suspected of anything. If I had only confessed, this nasty thing would have been
The matter will be resolved, the investigation will be concluded, and his...brother's horrible deeds will be hidden forever.
I thought I could do it."
Colonel Hughes put his hand on the boy's shoulder. The boy continued his story.
"I had heard through the grapevine... horrible things being done to Stephen.
So when my brother comes back from India, I'll keep an eye on him.
My brother often went to this woman's house. I knew she was a lang
I confirmed that she was the same woman who was mentioned in the rumor that was sent to me by the company.
I somehow managed to arrange an appointment to meet her.
He subtly hinted that he was a person with no connection to him.
Although it wasn't a success, I was able to gain her trust to a certain extent.
Gradually, I realized that my brother was truly devoted to the country, to the family's reputation, and to all of us.
I became convinced that they were betraying me.
It was at the tea ceremony you mentioned. I have already bought a gun.
I put it in my pocket and went to the Savoy Hotel for dinner.
That's why."
He rose to his feet and paced slowly up and down the room.
"I left the Savoy Hotel early and went to Stephen's room.
I decided to settle things through debate and confront my brother with the truth without any reservations.
And if there had been no explanation, I would have thought,
I was going to kill him. You see, I didn't actually commit a crime, but
The intention to commit a crime was there. I went into my brother's study.
It was full of strangers. My brother, Stephen, was lying on the couch...
He was stabbed once in the heart and was dead." There was a moment of silence. "
is everything,  said Lt. Fraser-Freer.
"I think," said Hughes gently, "that the lieutenant's investigation is
Isn't that the end of it? What do you think, Inspector?"
"Well," Bray said gruffly, "you may go away."
"Thank you," replied the young man. As he left, he
"I have to find my dad," she said haltingly to Z.
Bray sat in his chair, jutting his chin angrily and glaring sternly ahead.
Suddenly he turned to Hughes.
"That's not a fair fight," he said. "The War Department is watching over the captain.
I had no idea that he was doing that. I'm hearing all about it for the first time now."
"All right," Hughes said with a laugh. "I'll take the bet if you want."
Let's see it."
"By no means!" cried Bray. "The bet is still on.
I'll win. You think you did a good job, but
But are we any closer to finding the real culprit?
"Somewhat at least," Hughes replied gently. "This lady
People will definitely be detained."
"Yes, that's right," replied the inspector, ordering, "Take her away!"
Ta.
The constable stepped forward before the Countess, and Colonel Hughes politely opened the door.
"Sophie," he said, "this is a good opportunity to make up another story.
He's smart. That's a piece of cake."
She gave him a sullen look and walked out. Bray stood up from his desk.
I got up and sat across the table from Colonel Hughes.
There is something that will never be compatible, that's how I felt when I saw them.
Ta.
"A little closer?" sneered Bray.
"There's one possibility we overlooked," Hughes replied.
He turned to me, and I was startled by the coldness in his eyes.
Inspector: This American came to London with a letter of introduction addressed to the Captain.
It was written by the Captain's cousin, Archibald Enright.
For that matter, Fraser-Freer had no cousin by that name.
That's it."
"What?" said Bray.
"I'm not lying," Hughes said. "This American confessed that to me.
So"
"In that case," Bray said to me.
The small eyes that knocked at me looked narrow-minded and suspicious.
"You are under arrest. I have been given special treatment because I know someone at the American consulate.
We've been treating them differently, but that's over now."
I was astonished, and turned to the captain. He said that if he needed an ally, he would
I told them to count on me to help them out in such unexpected situations.
He was the one I had relied on. However, his eyes were completely expressionless, and I didn't see any sympathy.
Not even a speck.
"You're right, Inspector," he said. "This man should be locked up!"
When I began to protest, he walked right past me and whispered softly,
"Don't say anything. Wait."
I went back to my room and got permission to contact my friends and visit the consulate and embassy.
With the Colonel's advice, Bray agreed to this somewhat unusual move.
I agreed to the treatment. So this afternoon I was escorted out by a police officer.
And while I was writing this long letter, the constable sat in my easy chair.
Now he can't wait any longer, he has to leave immediately.
He says.
I don't have time to think about what's going to happen next or what's happening to me.
There's no time to think about the Colonel's sudden change of heart or the promises he whispered in my ear.
Tonight, I will definitely be spending the night in the area where the tourist information is provided to you.
"The Trande Yard," he said, pointing behind that horrible, ominous wall.
Now, I will once again pick up the pen and pour out my heartfelt thoughts in this final letter...
The officer won't wait. He's as impatient as a child. I can't wait an hour.
They say it was a lie, but that's a complete lie.
Wherever I go, my lady, I wonder what the outcome of this strange and complicated mystery will be.
And my feelings for you are...
Oh, damn it!
A man who was wrongfully arrested

The fifth letter from the young man in the Agony Column arrived at the Carlton Hotel on the morning of the reading
As you may remember, it was a Monday morning, August 1st, when a girl from Texas
It tells the thrilling climax of the Adelphi Terrace murders.
A nice young man friend of mine, whom I don't know, was arrested as a suspect in the case.
Although the news was expected as an inevitable development,
It had a profound impact on her. There was nothing she could do to help him.
He went to Scotland Yard himself and told the police that his father was in Texas.
I will use my status as a Congressman from California to demand the immediate release of Strawberry Man.
However, the Congressman from Texas and the London police
He had made the sensible decision that he would not even get a sniffle.
Congressman, that she knew all about crimes that hadn't even been published in the newspapers.
It wouldn't be easy to explain why.
She reread the second half of the fifth letter, in which her hero,
She is depicted heading to Scotland Yard with great honour.
With a small sigh, he went downstairs to meet his father.

Chapter 7

That morning, she had explained to her father the subtleties of international law regarding murder.
I asked a few casual questions. The father was distracted and extremely amused.
If I hadn't been so inclined, I probably would have noticed the strangeness of this question.
"Look, if we don't go home, we're in big trouble!" he said gloomily.
"The Germans are preparing to attack Li ge at Aix-la-Chapelle.
They're going to attack Belgium! Do you know what that means?
Britain entered the war. Labor issues, women's suffrage, the Irish Civil War,
It will disappear in a flash, like the snow that fell in Texas last winter.
They're going to join the war. If they don't, it's national suicide."
The daughter looked at her father with wide eyes. She saw that he had bought shoes from the Carlton Hotel.
I didn't know that he was just repeating the polishing technique.
I began to think that he might have some knowledge of diplomatic issues.
"Yes," he continued. "We must return home, and quickly.
Once the riots begin, this place will no longer be safe for non-combatants. I'm going home.
Even if it means buying a liner."
"Not at all!" said the girl. "This is the opportunity of a lifetime.
And I don't want to miss this golden opportunity by being tricked by my ignorant father.
Look, here we are face to face with history!"
"American history is enough," he said, throwing his arms and legs out. "What?
What's that look in your eyes?"
"I'm a country girl to the core," she said thoughtfully.
"Dad... I love you so much. I don't understand some of the American politicians.
There are probably some people who look dazed when faced with a situation they cannot handle.
I wish my dad hadn't turned out like that."
"Enough with the nonsense!" he cried. "I'm in the steamship company's business today.
They go into the room and negotiate. It's more intense than during the election."
The daughter could see that her father was determined. With the wisdom of long experience,
She made no attempt to dissuade him.
On that hot Monday, London was a city on high alert, a city of frightened people.
A rumor that appeared in an extra edition of a newspaper was denied in the next extra edition, and
Outside, the affirmation was heard again. The visionary looked far from happy.
I walked the streets. Anxiety reigned over the town. And the intimidating presence of Scotland Yard
A Texas girl who cares for her friend in the agony column who is "wrongfully imprisoned" behind the wall
The same anxiety echoed in my chest.
In the afternoon, my father appeared with a smile on his face like a victor.
He bought a ticket for an exorbitant amount from a man who was due to depart on the ship Saronia.
stomach.
"The connecting train leaves at ten o'clock Thursday morning," he said. "You'll see your last sight of Europe."
Get ready to go home with Manabu."
Just three days! My daughter felt depressed as she listened.
Will we hear the end of this mysterious mystery?
Can we see the final fate of this man who has been betting so hard?
He might still be at Scotland Yard in three days, prisoner.
As a human being! If that really happened, I wouldn't be able to walk away.
She's almost ready to tell her father the whole story.
He was confident that he could calm his father's anger and secure his cooperation.
The woman decided to wait until the next morning, and if the letter didn't arrive, then...
But on Tuesday morning a letter arrived, the first of which contained some good news:
At first... yes, good news. But at the end...
Here is the letter:

Dear young lady, I am concerned about your safety.
I was imprisoned for murdering a British Indian Army captain and I was told what evidence was available in my favour.
There is nothing, hope is really faint, it just speaks in a small voice, that's how it is
It would be foolish to think that a young lady who knows me would be concerned about my safety.
Is this the case?
My dear, you need not worry any longer. Since last Thursday, the surprising events that have been my fate have
The most amazing day of all time has just passed.
Now free, I sat in my room in the evening darkness, reminiscing on the experience I had just had.
After your unexpected adventure, you can enjoy the peace and quiet to your heart's content.
I am writing a letter to you.
I am no longer under suspicion and the police are no longer on my watch.
The yard doesn't have the slightest interest in me.
For Captain Razor-Freer's murderer has at last been caught!
I spent Sunday night in a Scotland Yard cell, ignominiously.
I couldn't sleep. I was thinking about a lot of things... like your
And in the meantime, there were so many things surrounding me that I couldn't even move.
A friend of mine from the consulate, Watson, came to visit me late at night and told me how to escape the trap.
But there was something missing in his voice.
After he left, I discovered, to my horror, that he too believed in my guilt after all.
I had faith.
A night has passed, and today, to use the poet's words, has largely passed "slowly."
I thought of London, which looked yellow in the sunlight, and
I thought of the old hotel. They probably don't have strawberries anymore. My waiter,
That upright Prussian is now marching in his regiment in Germany, his homeland.
And I thought of you.
At three o'clock this afternoon I was taken back to Inspector Bray's room.
When I entered the house, the inspector was not there, only Colonel Hughes.
As always, well-groomed and calm, he gazed out the window at the dreary stone-paved courtyard.
As I entered, he turned around and I was in a pitiful state.
He must have been, for a look of regret crossed his face.
"Oh, I'm so sorry! I was thinking of releasing him last night.
But I was too busy."
I was silent. What could I say? I was busy, or something.
I thought it was a good excuse, but I wonder if he will be able to escape the law anytime soon.
At the thought, my heart began to pound.
"You may not forgive me for abandoning you like that yesterday.
But it was absolutely necessary.
I think that's all."
I softened my stance a little. His voice and manner left no doubt.
There was sincerity.
"I'm waiting for Inspector Bray. I want to see this case resolved.
You must be thinking that, right? 
"Everything to the end," I answered.
"Of course. The inspector was called in immediately after the press conference yesterday.
It seems there is work on land. But fortunately, when I arrived in Dover,
I got in touch with him and asked him to come back to London. I need him.
"Yes, Captain Fraser-Freer's murderer has been found."
I was thrilled to hear that. For me, it was something I fervently desired.
The Colonel stopped talking. A few minutes later the door opened and
Bray came in, looking as if he'd slept in his clothes the night before.
Her little eyes were bloodshot, but there was a fire in them that I will never forget.
There was a twinkle. Hughes bowed.
"Good day, Inspector," he said. "I'm sorry to interrupt you.
I'm sorry, but how can you possibly know that you owe me a Homburg hat?
I just wanted to tell you." He walked up to the inspector. "Okay.
Or rather, I won the bet. I've found the man who killed Captain Fraser-Freer.
I was able to do it."
Oddly, Bray said nothing. He sat down at his desk and looked at the pile of
He stared blankly at the pile of mail he had received. Finally, he looked up, tired and
He said in a tone like that.
"You're a smart guy, Colonel Hughes."
"No, not at all," Hughes replied. "Just lucky.
I was really grateful to be involved in this case.
If I had not participated in the investigation, I am sure innocent people would have been affected.
It would have been a shocking experience. 
Bray's large, round hands continued to play with the letters on the desk.
Hughes continues.
"As a competent inspector, you will be pleased to share with me the chain of events that led to my winning the Homburg hat.
You're probably curious about the situation. You've already heard that I caught
The man was von der Hertz, the most powerful man working for the German government ten years ago.
He was a skilled secret agent, but in the last few years he has mysteriously disappeared from our sight.
We at the War Department have always been suspicious of this."
The Colonel sat down in his chair and faced Bray.
"You know Von der Hertz, of course," he said casually.
Ta.
"Of course," Bray said, still sounding exhausted.
"He's the chief spy in England," Hughes continued.
"You'll have a bit of pride in catching him.
Even if I hadn't caught him, poor Fraser-Fly
But von der Hertz was lucky enough to get there first.
It's just that I was able to kill the lieutenant."
Bray looked up.
"You said you were going to tell me " he began.
"I'll tell you now," said Hughes. "Captain Fraser-Freer is in India.
He was involved in a scandal and lost his chance for promotion. He was dissatisfied with his military service.
It was suspected that Countess Sophie de Graff was disgusted.
She began to tempt him with her charms, to kill the captain's loyalty and to win him over to her side.
is.
She seemed to succeed. The German Foreign Office thought so.
That's what we at the War Office thought too, while he was in India.
But when the Captain and his wife came to London, we misjudged the Captain.
He realized that the first opportunity came up and told us to redeem himself.
He was making an effort to hide dangerous spies, pretending to be one of them.
He told me that he was planning to catch them all.
It was his mission to meet the greatest spies, the spies of all time.
He also said that he would contact me again if he found out where this man was.
For the next few weeks I kept watch over the Countess, and the Captain
I was watching him for a while. I'm ashamed to say that I was completely oblivious to him.
I didn't trust them."
The colonel rose and went to the window. Then he turned and continued:
was.
"Fraser-Freer and von der Hertz knew nothing of each other.
I didn't know that. It was forbidden to use letters as a means of communication.
However, Fraser-Freer somehow received word from the spy chief.
And if you look carefully at the personal ads in the Daily Mail,
Now we have to explain the four strange messages.
I can explain. The man from Rangoon saw that column and put a white Chinese daisy in his buttonhole.
With a scarab pin on his tie and a Homburg hat,
Thursday evening at 10pm at Ye Olde Gambrinus Restaurant on Regent Street
We knew we had to meet with von der Hertz in
As we all know, he prepared himself according to these instructions.
He has done the same thing. There is no question of him coming to Scotland Yard.
So, by some clever trick, I arranged to meet a police inspector at the Hotel Cecil.
That's when von der Hertz revealed his true identity to the lieutenant on Thursday evening.
Arrangements were made to arrest him on the spot."
Hughes paused. Bray continued to play with the pile of letters. The Colonel
stared at him with a stern look on his face.
"Poor Fraser-Freer!" Hughes continued. "And
Unfortunately, Von der Hertz had planned to trap him, but the Inspector
I learned almost at the same time that there was only one way for a spy to
He found out where the colonel was staying, went there at seven o'clock that night, and
They killed a brave Englishman at the joint."
A tense silence filled the room. I leaned forward in my chair and said,
I wondered what would happen once this tangled mystery was solved.
"The clues I had were very limited," Hughes continues.
"But I also had an advantage: the police were the only ones pursuing murderers.
He didn't even try to shake me off because
Because they didn't think I was involved in the investigation.
Yes, my men were watching the Countess, and I had them keep watch.
I knew that sooner or later, von der Hertz would contact her.
My guess was right. Finally, I saw with my own eyes the unmistakable F
When I saw Von der Hertz in person, I was astonished, Inspector, overwhelmed.
I felt like I could do it."
"I guess so," said Bray.
"Then I asked him how he was connected to the incident at Adelphi Terrace.
The fingerprints found in the captain's study were somehow
However, I found the culprit's fingerprints outside.
It was found on the dusty surface of a rarely used gate leading out from the garden.
I secretly took a thumbprint from the man I suspected.
The resemblance between the two was astonishing. I then went to the newspaper offices in Fleet Street and, fortunately,
I also got hold of the typed copies of the four messages sent to the Daily Mail.
When I looked at it, I noticed that the lowercase a was out of place.
I got hold of a typewritten letter belonging to the suspect.
A was standing out from the rest of the group. At that time, a man named Archibald Enright
A traitorous scoundrel, well known among us as a traitor,
He came to England. The suspect and he fell in I Old Gambrinus.
And finally, I was convinced that it was von der Hertz.
When I visited the lodgings of a man who was a
I saw it."
Colonel Hughes had written on the inspector's desk the
He threw away the Indian knife he saw afterwards.
"I had all this evidence when I was in this room yesterday morning.
And yet the answers they provide are so incredible, so surprising.
I wasn't convinced because it should be. I wanted stronger evidence.
So I let my American friends here have a suspicion.
I waited. Von der Hertz, sensing the danger,
I think they will know and, if given the chance, will try to get out of England.
No matter how cunning he is, it's obvious he's guilty.
The evidence is conclusive. His prediction is correct, and he releases the Countess that afternoon.
So we both went to the continent. I caught him at Dover.
It was a stroke of good fortune that he came, and the lady was glad to let him go."
It was then that I finally realized the shocking truth.
looked down at its prey and smiled.
"Inspector Bray," he said, "or Von der Hertz,
He was arrested for two crimes. One was the operation of a German spy ring infiltrating Britain.
the first as the leader of the group, and the second as the perpetrator of the murder of Captain Fraser-Freer.
It may seem presumptuous, but I would like to express my respect for your abilities."
Bray didn't respond for a while. I sat there, paralyzed.
Finally the inspector looked up. To my surprise, he was smiling.
This was the case.
"The hat is yours," he said, "but I'll go to Homburg to buy it."
You have to. I'll gladly pay all the expenses."
"I'm honored," Hughes replied. "I hope to visit your country soon."
However, I can't afford to be distracted by choosing a hat.
Well, I'll give you another kudos. You were a little inattentive.
But that was to be expected, given your position.
As the head of a division of Scotland Yard, there is no need for vigilance.
Fraser-Freer was really unlucky.
I went to you and arranged for your own arrest.
I got that information from the front desk at the Hotel Cecil.
From the perspective of the
You were willing to take some risks.
I have made arrangements in advance to be in charge of the investigation once it arrives at the front yard.
It was a clever scheme."
"That's what I thought at the time," Bray admitted.
I heard the bitterness in his voice.
"I'm very sorry," said Hughes. "I'm afraid I'll be out today or tomorrow at the latest."
Greece will join the war. You know what that means, don't you?
On der Hertz. The Tower of London and the firing squad!"
He slowly walked away from the inspector and stood facing the window.
N der Hertz was idly twirling an Indian knife on his desk.
But then, suddenly, he looked around the room with a frightened look in his eyes, and shook his hand.
He lifted the knife up, and before I could jump forward to stop him, he pulled it out himself.
It pierced his heart.
Colonel Hughes heard my shout and turned around, but when he saw the scene before him,
But the Englishman remained unfazed.
"What a pity," he said. "He was truly a great man. He was courageous and
He was a man of great intelligence, no doubt. But... this was his kindness.
That's very thoughtful of you. It saved me a lot of trouble."
The Colonel released me immediately.
After experiencing the wall, he felt very comfortable in the bright sunlight.
and I walked together through the streets of Whitehall.
I apologized again for making him feel bad, but I said I didn't hold any grudges.
I reassured him.
"There are a couple of things I don't understand," I said.
That letter I brought from Laeken..."
"That's simple," he replied. "Enwright is now in the Tower of London.
I tried to contact Fraser-Freer.
He thought Sa was a loyal member of the spy ring. Sending letters by mail was dangerous.
So, with your kind help, I was able to inform the Captain of my location.
And so he told me the date of his imminent arrival in London.
A doesn't want you to get involved in the plan and will try to keep you away.
He denied having any brothers, which of course was true."
"Why did the Countess ask me to change my testimony?"
"Bray sent him. He searched Fraser-Freer's desk and
I got hold of Wright's letter. He was desperately trying to pin the blame on the young lieutenant.
You and your testimony about the time of the crime were in the way.
He threatened you..."
"but  "
"I know, I was wondering why the Countess confessed to me the next day.
I gave him a little scare. He got caught in the web of rapid-fire questions.
She was once trapped. She had been under guard for weeks.
Then, suddenly, von der Hertz realized that he was not as safe as he had thought.
She must have been scared. When the time was right, I took her to Inspector Bray.
This gave her an idea.
She made up a false confession and went to see him.
She warned him that he was in danger and they fled."
We walked in silence for a while.
The afternoon special edition, which was printed on the same day, ostentatiously reported on the horror to come.
He had a solemn look on his face.
"How long was Von der Hertz at Scotland Yard?"
I heard.
"Nearly five years," Hughes replied.
"That's unbelievable," I muttered.
"Yes," he replied, "but that is what this war will reveal."
This is just the first of many incredible facts.
We've all forgotten about this in the face of incredible new revelations.
"I don't know," he sighed. "These people are afraid of the horrors that await us here.
If only we were aware of the challenges ahead! As a nation, we are out of control and unprepared.
It's scary to think of the sacrifices we have to make.
Many of these sacrifices are in vain. But as time goes by, someday, somehow,
I guess I can get through it."
He said goodbye to me in Trafalgar Square and will soon be gone.
He tracked down the father and brother of the captain who had become a lieutenant, and discovered that their bloodline was in fact loyal to their country.
I said I had to tell him what had happened.
"For them, this news will be a ray of light in the darkness," he said.
He said, "I thank you again."
I broke up with him and returned to my lodgings. The mystery was finally solved. It had been a nightmare.
It was an unexpected ending, but it was resolved.
But there is one thing that torments me and makes me rest.
There is a sinister truth that no one will tell you.
I have to... but I'm worried that it might be the end of everything.
I hope you can understand!
I walked through the room, pondering, perplexed, and uncertain. And now I have made up my mind.
I have no other choice. I have to tell you the truth.
Despite the fact that Bley was a von der Hertz,
Despite the fact that he committed suicide due to the revelation of
Nevertheless, Bray did not kill Captain Fraser-Freer!
Last Thursday night, a little after seven o'clock, I went up the stairs and into the captain's room.
She picked up a knife from the desk and plunged it into his heart!
What provocation had I received, what grave necessity had moved me?
Well... you'll have to wait until tomorrow to find out all about this.
I will spend another anxious day preparing my defense.
By some merciful miracle, you will forgive me, and I have no choice but to do so.
Hoping they'll understand that it wasn't.
Miss, don't jump to conclusions until you know the whole story.
until I present it all to your beautiful hands.
Your humble servant.

The sixth and penultimate letter from the Agony Column man is
A smile of relief spread across the daughter's face as she read it. She knew her friend had been in Victoria.
Beyond that grey wall along the Embankment,
I was unconditionally happy to learn that he had not suffered any hardships.
With increasing excitement, she gradually discovered that Colonel Hughes in the letter was the nucleus of the case.
He approached her heart, and finally pointed to Inspector Bray, who was sitting in a chair, and identified him as the culprit.
They watched his every move closely. This was a perfectly satisfactory solution.
The police inspector who had imprisoned her friend was due for his punishment.
Later, with the suddenness of a bomb dropped from an airship, Strawberry Man confesses his guilt.
He was the murderer! He admitted it! He
The woman couldn't believe her eyes.
But over the course of this thrilling week,
On the lost note paper, in the same violet ink as her eyes,
She read the letter twice, three times. Her confusion turned to anger.
Her cheeks were burning red, but he didn't think it would be true until he saw all the evidence.
I asked them not to make any judgments. It was certainly a reasonable request, and
She had to acknowledge it in order to stay true.

Chapter 8

Thus, not only for the girl in Texas, but for the whole of London,
A very restless day began. Her father started by shining the shoes of his advisor.
He was bursting with talk of the new diplomatic secrets he had been given.
In 1945, he was destined to become a prominent figure in Washington as a foreign intelligence expert.
No one expected that the man from Texas was behind him.
I have often thought of that talented diplomat, and he is still by my side as my advisor.
You will wish you could do that.
"There will be war by midnight, that's for sure!" he said on that fateful Tuesday.
"Look, Marian, I got a ticket for the Saronia,
Shira is lucky. Nowadays, you can't buy a ticket for five thousand dollars.
If I can get on board, I'll be happy."
The day after tomorrow! thought the girl. At any rate the letter would arrive. Her young friend had written it himself.
A letter containing a defense she wrote to explain her despicable actions.
I eagerly waited for the letter.
The day passed slowly, and late at night, just as the next day was about to begin, the British
News of the war had arrived. The shoe shiner at the Carlton Hotel had a heart of gold for a Texan.
The next morning, a letter arrived, and I was thrilled.
Her fingers tore open the seal. The letter read:

Dear Lady Judge,
This was much harder to write than any letter you've received from me.
It is a letter I have been thinking about for the last 24 hours. Last night I was at Embankment.
I strolled along the streets of the city. Horse-drawn carriages were running slowly, and the lights of streetcars were shining brightly.
Like the fireflies that flew through Sass's backyard, dancing on Westminster Bridge
I was worried while walking. Today I locked myself in my room and worried.
Now, as I begin to write this letter, I am still thinking
I can't stop. I don't know where to start, what to say,
I started writing without really understanding what I was writing.
At the end of my last letter, I told you I had killed Captain Fraser-Freer.
I confessed that it was me. It is true.
It boils down to the same thing. What a bitter truth!
Less than a week had passed since then, but last Thursday night at 7pm, I walked down a dark staircase.
I went up and plunged the knife into the heart of that defenseless gentleman.
If he offended me in that way, I would say that if his death was very devastating to Inspector Bray,
If I can prove that I needed it too, I hope someday I will receive your forgiveness.
But lo and behold,
That gentleman has been very kind to me, as you may have guessed from my letter.
He was so kind that I couldn't help but feel that there was no need to kill him.
Where can I find vindication?
The only defense I can think of right now is this... The Captain knew I had killed him.
That means knowing!
As I write this, I feel the same way now as I did when I sat here writing that first letter.
Similarly, the captain's footsteps sounded overhead. He was leaving for dinner.
We ate together at Romano's restaurant.
It is supposed to be done.
Now, my dear, the riddle that has troubled you... and I hope... has been answered.
You see, I killed my best friend, the captain, with the second letter.
In a strange twist, there was an advertisement for a novel in the study, next to the green-shaded lamp.
As the book states, how about writing seven letters that will grab your attention and hold onto it until the very end?
It was something that occurred in my imagination as I was pondering whether I should write
Yes, I have sinned... I cannot deny it.
I don't want to imitate that and imply that I was seduced by a beautiful woman.
But a strict respect for truth would not allow you to be guilty.
Why? Your message to the Daily Mail
Think back to Sage: "Grapefruit women... mystery and romance."
I love it..."
Of course, you didn't know this, but by saying this, you
He presented a challenge that was hard to resist.
Making music is my life's work, or rather, the energy of my life.
Maybe you've broadened some of them.
You may have seen it in the UK. My play is coming up in London.
You may have seen the announcement. The Palace Theatre's program schedule reads:
It was about my play. I was in England because of that work.
However, since the project has been cancelled, I can return to Japan at any time.
It was exactly what I wanted when you gave me the privilege of seven letters.
So, I thought, this woman wants mystery and romance.
Well, let's give it to him!
Then came the sound of Captain Fraser-Freer's heavy boots from above.
He is a man of great integrity and strong conviction.
The Captain, after presenting a letter of introduction from his cousin, Archibald Enright,
They were so kind to me. Poor Archie! Adults
He was a good and decent man, but I made him out to be a spy and a regular at Limehouse.
If you found out, you'd be so shocked you'd be speechless!
I was still unsure how to start the conversation, but I
He begins his first letter, hinting that Archie's introduction is a little different.
When I wrote the second letter, I was wondering how Fraser-Freer's death had affected me.
I thought it was necessary to do so. I remembered the Indian knife that was on his desk.
At that moment, his fate was sealed.
I hadn't thought about it at all. But those four strange articles in the Daily Mail
I read the message with a skeptical attitude and decided that I had to incorporate it into my talk.
I thought it wouldn't happen.
I had a hard time writing the fourth letter, but that very night,
On the way back from dinner, I saw a taxi parked in front of my quiet apartment.
It was then that I remembered the visit of the woman wearing lilac perfume.
The German Foreign Office had no use for a female spy who was so foolish as to draw attention to herself.
I think it's time to write the fifth letter.
I felt like it was time for me to be able to do this.
I had a faint hope that maybe that was the case. Ah, I'm such a nasty person.
It's here!
When I first started this game, I told the Captain that I would brutally kill you.
He was very amused, but before I could write the last letter,
He told me to make sure he cleared his name. I agreed with him.
He is a very good person. Furthermore, something he said made me think about solving the mystery.
He had heard from reliable sources that they had caught an undercover spy.
Apparently, the head of the Russian Tsar's agency was a spy himself.
Wouldn't it be ok to have a spy in Toland Yard?
As I write this letter, I feel very regretful.
However, when I started writing this story, I never thought that war would break out.
But now all of Europe is in flames.
When I think of the terrible suffering that will soon come, what does my little story mean to me?
But that's inappropriate... No, I'm sure you know what I mean.
Please forgive me. I have no idea what to say, but
I hope to pique your interest in my letter and make you feel that I am an interesting person worthy of your attention.
It seemed so important to me that you
That morning in Teru's breakfast room was truly the best day of my life.
When you walked through the door, it was like...
You have no right to say anything. You have no right to say anything.
Other than that, I'll leave it to you. If I hurt your feelings,
I don't think I'll ever contact you again.
The captain will be here soon. It's almost time for our appointment , and he's never late.
He had no plans to return to India and thought he would be selected for the expeditionary force to the continent.
I hope the Germans are kinder to him than I am!
My name is Jeffrey West, and I live at 19 Adelphi Terrace.
The room overlooks one of London's most beautiful gardens.
It's not a lie. It's very quiet tonight, and not just in the city, but in the streets of war and terror.
The constant clamor for fear also seems a million miles away.
Can I meet you? The answer is entirely up to you.
I am anxiously awaiting your reply. If there is an opportunity to explain,
If they give me the opportunity to criticize myself directly to you, then I'm in luck.
The man said goodbye to his garden and his dark, dusty room and headed to the ends of the earth, to Texas.
Even the squirrels will follow you!
Colonel Fraser-Freer descends. Miss, this is your final goodbye.
Will this be the case? I sincerely hope not.
Repentant Strawberry Man

Chapter 9

As she read the seventh and final letter, sent to her maid, Sadie Haight,
The feelings the daughter of the Carlton Hotel experienced are indescribable.
However, when I flip through the dictionary, I can't find any words that I think I can use.
But there are also other emotions such as "shock," "anger," "disbelief," and "amazement."
If we go back to item A, the word "amusement" is not bad either.
I got it, but there was only a day left until the Saronia set sail.
We think we should leave her alone, with her strange mixture of emotions.
Leave her and go back to the anxious young man in Adelphi Terrace.
cormorant.
Upon learning that the letter had been delivered, Geoffrey West was extremely humble and
I sat in the chair called Yasu. I writhed there for hours on Wednesday morning.
In order to avoid prolonging the description of this pitiful scene, I hastily left the
Let us add that at three o'clock the telegram arrived that put an end to the tension.
is.

Strawberry Man, I'll never forgive you. Tomorrow, Salonia will be out.
Is there a plan for immediate hearing? Marian A. Learned

So a few minutes later, a steamship ticket seller was standing in front of a crowd of Americans.
A young man with wild eyes joined the crowd, further upsetting those who saw it.
He told the exhausted attendant that he had to get on the Saronia at all costs.
"I have to," he said with a fiery voice. There seemed to be no way to calm this man down.
Even if they offered to send out a regular ferry just for him, he didn't even look at it.
I guess so.
He was rambling madly, tearing his hair, and yelling furiously.
It's all for nothing. In plain American English,
"Nothing Doing."
Although his wish was not fulfilled, he was determined to find someone who had a ticket for the Saronia.
I tried to find him in the crowd. At first, I had a hard time finding a lucky person.
I couldn't get through to him until I finally met Tommy Gray, an old friend.
After being questioned so persistently, one Gray wanted it so badly he was desperate to get it.
He admitted that he had a ticket for the ship that was not worth buying, but he refused to give the king his horse and gold.
Even though everyone said they would do it, he was not moved at all.
We'd love to do it, but my wife and I have decided to set sail.
That's when Jeffrey West made a pact with his friends.
He received a steamship tag from Gray and put his luggage on the Saronia as Gray's belongings.
It was decided that this would be done.
"But," protested Gray, "if you've managed to get away with it...
I mean, even if you could sail without a ticket, where would you sleep? Somewhere in the hold.
Won't I have to sleep chained up?"
"It's all right," West said cheerfully. "We'll be on the lee side of the dining room and the lifeboats."
I'll sleep anywhere, even in the drain. I'll sleep in the air, even if I have no visible support.
Damn it. I don't care where. Just get on the boat! And the chains...
But... it's not strong enough to hold me in place."
At five o'clock on Thursday afternoon the Saronia glided away from the Liverpool docks.
The number of passengers was 2,500, almost double the number required for a comfortable voyage.
Americans stood on the deck and cheered, many of them millionaires.
But even they were booked in third class. Everyone was hungry during the transatlantic crossing.
They were destined to feel discomfort and pain. They were trampled on, stepped on, and squeezed by others.
The boat left the pier and people were shoving and squeezing each other.
They had expected something like that at the time.
He was wearing geta.
The happiest person was Ji, who looked triumphant in the midst of the chaos.
It was Jeffrey West. Safely on board, the ship is underway!
However, he didn't care about that at all. He was a mass of strong will,
They boarded the ship of happiness, the Saronia.
That night, the Saronia turned off all the deck lights and drew curtains over the portholes.
While sailing under cover and stealthily, West is seen on the dimly lit deck by a precious woman.
She stood staring out at the black water.
I approached her nervously. I didn't know what to say,
I felt that I had to create an opportunity somehow.
"Excuse me, but may I speak to you?" he began.
teeth  "
She turned around in surprise and gave me a strange, faint smile.
He couldn't see in the darkness.
"I'm sorry," she said. "I don't know you, as far as I can remember."
As long as it is..."
"I know," he replied. "I'm supposed to get an introduction tomorrow.
Tommy Gray's wife was on the boat with you some time ago..."
"I only met him on the steamer," the girl answered coldly.
"Of course! But Mrs. Grey is a wonderful woman.... She
I think they will take the time to introduce me. I just want to introduce you tomorrow.
in front  "
"Wouldn't it be better to wait?"
"I can't! I don't have a ticket. I'll go down now and
I have to tell my supervisor about it. I might get thrown overboard.
I might be locked up. I don't know how they treat people like me.
Maybe I'll be forced to be a stoker.
You will never see the machete again and you will have to add fuel.
I just want to say... I apologize for my overly powerful imagination.
I was in the middle of it, really! I didn't want to deceive you with that letter.
But once I started... you know,
That morning when I walked into the Carlton Hotel,
From the moment I arrived I..."
"Um, this is a problem, Mister..."
"It's West. Jeffrey West. I love you!
Can you prove it? I can prove it, this ship is on the North River.
Before we get there, maybe you should talk to your dad about the personal classifieds.
And about the seven letters..."
"That's no good! My father is in a very bad mood. The dinner was bad, and the waiter
They say that if you get involved, by the end of the voyage it will seem like a feast.
Plus, the poor dad said he couldn't sleep in the private room he was given.
Ushi..."
"That would be better! I'll go see my father right now.
If you're on my side, you're always on my side!
Before you go and try to please the scary-looking flight attendant in the office, please believe me.
Can you please tell me that I love you deeply?"
"I love mystery and romance! And your extraordinary creativity!
You're such a good liar, I don't take your words seriously.
I can't do that..."
"By the end of this voyage, you will be forced to take it seriously.
I will prove my love to you. If the Purser will spare me..."
"You have a lot to prove," the woman smiled. "Tomorrow, Tommy,
- If Mr. Gray's wife introduces you to her... you'll start dating.
Maybe... as someone who is good at making up stories. I happen to know that he has a talent.
But, any relationship beyond that is... ridiculous!
"Go and settle this with the purser."
Reluctantly he left. Five minutes later he returned, his daughter still leaning against the railing.
He was standing nearby.
"It's okay!" West said. "I'm the only one who does this."
I thought so too, but it turns out there are eleven other people in the same situation.
One of them is a Wall Street billionaire.
I told him to take the money and sleep on the deck, if there was room."
"I'm afraid," said the girl, "I would rather see you as a stoker."
I was imagining it." She looked around the dark deck. "It was unnerving.
"I'm sure this voyage will be full of mystery and romance."
"I know it's full of romance," West replied. "It's full of mystery.
Let me explain, so that it makes sense..."
"Shut up!" interrupted the girl. "My father is coming. I'm looking forward to meeting him.
I'm here...tomorrow. Poor daddy is looking for a place to sleep.
Yes."
The poor father had to wear his clothes while the ship sailed out to sea every night in the cold drizzle.
They slept on the deck and suffered from hunger in the dining room, where food supplies had dwindled.
Five days later, his pitiful appearance was enough to move even his political opponents.
Shortly after a dinner that did not satisfy one's appetite, he was now gloomily in his stateroom.
Jeffrey West leaned back in the deck chair.
He came over and sat down beside him.
"Mr. Larned," he said, "I have something to give you."
With a gentle smile, he pulled a large, warm roasted sweet potato from his pocket.
The man from Texas was delighted to receive the gift.
"Where did you get that?" he asked, splitting the treasure in two.
"It's a secret," West replied, "but I can have as many as I want."
You'll never be hungry again, Mr. Learned.
There's something else I want to talk to you about. I'm going to marry your daughter.
I think so."
said the congressman, engrossed in eating potatoes.
"What does your daughter say?"
"They say there's no chance of that happening. But..."
"Well, be careful, my dear. He's determined to marry you."
"I'm glad you said that. I should introduce myself."
And I also learned that before I met your daughter, I wrote her seven letters.
I would like you to keep it..."
"Wait a minute," the Texas man interrupted. "Before we get to that,
Can you tell me where you got the potatoes?"
West nodded.
"Of course," he said, leaning in to whisper.
A smile appeared on the older man's face for the first time in days.
"You," he said, "I think I'm going to like you. Never mind the rest.
I've heard all about you from your friend Gray. And that letter.
...Without that, I wouldn't have been able to endure the first half of this journey. Maria
He told me to read it the night he came on board."
Suddenly, the moon that hadn't been seen for a long time appeared from behind the clouds, and the packed regular train
The ship was enveloped in a silver light. West left the father to the potatoes and searched for his daughter.
It came out.
She stood in the moonlight by the railing of the forecastle.
She looked ahead, towards the great country that had sent her on her voyage of adventure and knowledge.
As West approached, she turned around.
"I was just talking to your father," he said. "You ended up
-You said you would accept me."
She laughed.
"Tomorrow evening will be the last time we meet on the ship. I will then make my final decision.
I'll tell you."
"But that's still twenty-four hours away! Do we really have to wait that long?"
"A little suspense wouldn't hurt. I'll wait for your letter.
I can't forget those long days..."
"I know. But just give me a little hint... here... tonight...
Would you like to?"
"I'm a cold woman, I'm not kind at all!"
At that moment, West's fingers wrapped around her hand, and she softly added,
"I won't give you any hints... My answer is... Yes.
Except that.